{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green119\blue204;\red118\green118\blue118;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c46667\c80000;\csgenericrgb\c46275\c46275\c46275;}
{\info
{\title The fight on climate change heats up}}\vieww12540\viewh15520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Restaurants put climate change on the menu
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 6, 2019 Wednesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0FOOD; Pg. E01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01751 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Sarah Henry
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 San Francisco restaurateurs Anthony Myint and Karen Leibowitz may have been ahead of their time with their environmentally minded restaurant. The Perennial, which closed in February after three years of business in the city's challenging Mid-Market neighborhood, tried to tackle 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  through hyperlocal sourcing, energy efficiency, an eco-conscious design, food waste prevention and consumer education, among other planet-friendly practices.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the culinary couple, partners in life and work, haven't lost their sense of urgency around global warming and how the restaurant industry could play a key role in combating the problem. Their latest 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  campaign with a culinary bent: an optional surcharge on California restaurant checks. It's part of a new public-private initiative supporting carbon farming practices that Myint and Leibowitz are leading called Restore California.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The pair came to realize that one restaurant alone can't 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the food system fast enough to make an impact on the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis. It takes an international village of concerned culinary industry leaders, they say, to take on a topic that many diners and chefs can find tough to digest: the critical role that regenerative agriculture - think practices like composting and cover cropping - can play in mitigating the impact of global warming. In a state now suffering the wrath of hotter, drier weather in the form of larger, more frequent and more devastating wildfires, Myint and Leibowitz's message has only taken on more urgency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As the co-founders of the popular pop-up Mission Street Food, Myint and Leibowitz are no strangers to industry innovation. In 2014, they founded the nonprofit organization Zero Foodprint, which serves as a resource for restaurants and food service providers that want to find ways to reduce their carbon footprint, by, say, switching to renewable energy, eschewing plastic or sourcing sustainably raised beef. To date, around 30 restaurants have achieved carbon-neutral status under the program; twice that number are on their way to earning the stamp.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Michelin-starred Bresca is Washington's lone entry on the list of Zero Foodprint's carbon-neutral restaurants, which includes such other upscale dining establishments as California's Atelier Crenn, Benu and State Bird Provisions. "With small adjustments we can make huge impacts for our environment," says Bresca chef-owner Ryan Ratino, who works with "imperfect" foods and whole animals, composts and uses compostable containers, and avoids plastic and over-ordering. "My hope is that these sustainable practices become a lifestyle for our restaurants and in this way we truly make a difference together."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's the goal. "Food is both a major cause and a major solution to global warming. We've spent five years engaging chefs and restaurateurs on becoming part of the solution to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," says Myint, an earnest, self-described social introvert who makes fun of how much he geeks out on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science and potential solutions. Since he is a chef, he understands them: They're busy people, consumed by daily operations and razor-thin profit margins, who have what he calls "a really strong B.S. meter." He adds: "But chefs possess all this cultural capital, they're agile, they get stuff done and make things work. This could become a global movement of chefs who want to do the right thing."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And the culinary industry, he says, is uniquely positioned to support this cause. When Myint talks up the benefits to the planet of carbon farming and why restaurants should add a small fee to aid farmers in implementing such practices, he doesn't get too into the science-y weeds. Put simply, carbon farming increases soil carbon (that's a good thing) and decreases carbon dioxide in the air (also a good thing). As one chef told him: "You mean I just have to add a 1 percent fee to unf--- the planet?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Something like that. Restaurants that sign up to participate in Restore California - a partnership between Myint and Leibowitz's culinary-agricultural nonprofit Perennial Farming Initiative and its Zero Foodprint program, and the state Department of Food and Agriculture and California Air Resources Board - commit to collecting a 1 percent optional fee from customers to fight 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  by helping fund farmers who implement practices designed to reduce, contain or remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. CO2 is considered one of the main contributors to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This fall, Zero Foodprint is gathering support for the Restore California program, formally announced in the spring, with the intent of highlighting a core group of early adopters come January, says Leibowitz. San Francisco newcomer Great Gold, a modern Italian restaurant that opened in August and already has a Zero Foodprint ranking, is experimenting with listing the surcharge in the fine print on its menu. "Most of our customers don't mind the surcharge, but we have had a few complaints," says partner/co-owner David Steele, who notes that San Francisco diners are already used to a 5 percent surcharge to help fund health insurance and other employee costs. "We will continue to monitor this. If we feel it is not fully accepted by our customers, we will remove the 1 percent [from menus] and just eat the cost internally, because we believe deeply in the cause."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Myint points to the early success of such efforts with restaurants he's involved with. Since the fall of 2018, Mission Chinese Food in San Francisco, Myint and Leibowitz's bricks-and-mortar restaurant, has included a 3 percent carbon farming surcharge. Out of the more than 30,000 diners who have eaten at the restaurant since then, only a handful have questioned the charge and just one consumer - paying for a group of four - declined to participate, says Myint, who sees that as an encouraging sign, since few consumers want to pay more for food than they have to. A sister restaurant in Copenhagen, Vesterbro Chinese Food, where Myint serves as a consultant, is carbon-neutral and includes a 1 percent surcharge on its bill. At a different price point on the dining scale, one San Francisco burger joint opted for an alternative way to pass on the carbon surcharge to consumers by building it into the price of menu items. The robot restaurant Creator, which includes a Mission Street Food burger by Myint, increased the cost of its $6 and $7 burgers by 7 cents to support the cause.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In California, the surcharge funds are managed by a social impact bank partner of the Perennial Farming Initiative. Eligible farmers complete an assessment for funding consideration. The program will serve as a complement to California's existing Healthy Soils Program. That government program funds carbon farming practices such as hedgerow and tree planting, cover crops and crop rotation, composting and other measures that pull carbon dioxide from the air, prevent its release from the soil or store it in the ground.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This could potentially help a lot of farmers and ranchers who don't have the capital to implement carbon farming practices, which can be expensive, risky and take time to learn what to do," says Loren Poncia of Stemple Creek Ranch in Marin County, Calif., an early adopter of carbon farming practices through the Marin Carbon Project. Poncia has received funding twice from the Healthy Soils Program to implement such efforts. "For consumers, it's a chance to vote with their dollars and commit to helping combat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in a way they'll barely notice on their check but will collectively add up and really help," says Poncia. "Global warming is here. We only have so much time to implement 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Things are getting worse, not better. It's never a bad thing to build better soil."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agricultural practices to reduce and store greenhouse gases will be crucial for the Golden State's goal, set by former governor Jerry Brown, of achieving carbon neutrality by 2045, an ambitious undertaking for the fifth-largest economy in the world. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who has said healthy soils are a "passion of mine," pledged $28 million in Healthy Soils Program funding in this year's budget. Not everyone thinks that's enough to increase carbon-focused farming in California enough to meet the state's decarbonization goals.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Global warming's impact on the food supply has been linked to mussels being cooked in their shells in a heat wave on the California shore, stone fruit shortages across the United States due to low-chill winters and erratic frosts, and Napa Valley vineyard growers experimenting with different varieties to adapt to 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  weather patterns, among other disruptions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This summer, Zero Foodprint's carbon farming crusade received a big international boost when Myint won the Basque Culinary World Prize, which comes with 100,000 euros (about $112,000) in prize money attached, courtesy of the Basque Culinary Center and the Basque government. The annual award honors a chef who demonstrates how gastronomy can serve as a powerful force for positive 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Myint says he intends to use the award to further the work of Zero Foodprint.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The prize was announced at a Sustainable Thinking Symposium in San Francisco, which brought together some of the world's most prominent chefs, including Italy's Massimo Bottura, Mexico's Enrique Olvera and San Francisco's Dominique Crenn, to discuss pressing sustainability matters. On the agenda: 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , soil health, food waste, vertical indoor farming, institutional food service and local sourcing.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Golden State may be a trailblazer on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  solutions, but several states have passed healthy soils legislation, and many more are working on similar initiatives for 2020, says Myint, who could see other states developing their own versions of Restore California. "I started cooking because I believe restaurants can make the world a better place," says Myint, who adds that becoming a parent seven years ago proved an impetus for exploring what chefs can do about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "I still believe that's true."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If even 1 percent of restaurants in California become part of this program, that would create as much as $10 million a year in funding for these farming practices, says Myint. "And if there's no other major sea 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the industry except that every restaurant starts composting and restaurants pay for that to go back to the farms, that alone would be a game changer."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 food@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Sarah Henry is a freelance writer based in the San Francisco Bay area.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 6, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Clean up climate change? It's just good for business.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 October 14, 2018 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. G01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01693 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson;Brady Dennis;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 If the world's largest companies live up to the promises they've made to slow 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , together they could reduce emissions by an amount equal to those of Germany.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The corporate pledges gained new attention this week after an ominous report was issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , which said that government policies alone won't ensure the "unprecedented" societal 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  needed over the next decade to stem 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That puts the onus on the business sector to clean up a mess it helped create.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To a greater extent than ever before, the best interest of many businesses and those of the planet are aligned.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We've gone from saying 'it would be nice to do, but it would cost us' to saying 'if we don't do it, we won't be able to grow, we won't be able to have tomorrow's economy,' " said Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources Institute (WRI). "Business leaders, they realize that."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As Feike Sijbesma, chief executive of the Dutch multinational company Royal DSM, put it: "We need to future-proof ourselves."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report said that holding the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels - as set forth in the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement - will require creating entire new industries to remove carbon from the air as well as the overhaul of the vast energy infrastructure that has been built over more than a century.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Historically, corporations have been complicit in the world's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problem. One analysis shows that half of the globe's emissions since 1988 are traceable to just 25 private and state-owned fossil fuel corporations. And many have lobbied against policies that would limit the emission of greenhouse gases. They have done so both directly and through support of groups that have cast doubt on the idea of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Recently, however, there has been a palpable 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the way business leaders talk about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Some of my investors and banks asked me what do you want to do: Improve the world or make money? I said, 'Well, both,' " Sijbesma said. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 What they don't do
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 With trillions of dollars at stake, corporations have forged ahead to create sustainable businesses. They are taking steps to lower their carbon footprints and overhaul their supply chains in a race against rising seas and temperatures. Others are trying to achieve the ultimate goal: pulling carbon dioxide out of the air and using or storing it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 From Apple to Walmart, from Ikea to Google, dozens of firms have embraced renewable energy. UPS is shifting toward electric vehicles. Costco has installed solar systems on top of at least 100 of its warehouse stores, and some locations use solar power in parking lots. Google in 2017 offset all of its office and data center electricity use by adding renewable energy to the grid.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some of the biggest 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are coming from what companies do not do. Europe's largest bank, HSBC, this year stopped funding new coal-fired power plants, oil-sands development and Arctic drilling, joining a growing number of investors and lenders to shun ambitious fossil fuel projects.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Making real strides will be expensive. The U.N. report said that hitting the 1.5 degree Celsius target would cost an average of $3.5 trillion a year through 2050 - almost $1 trillion a year more than the pledges made by governments in Paris in 2015.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The bulk of the money will have to come from the private sector. Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimate that global investment in what is called "clean energy" came to $138.2 billion in the first six months of 2018, down 1 percent from the same period in 2017. The slippage reflected lower capital costs for photovoltaic projects, with fewer dollars spent per megawatt installed; and a cooling-off in China's solar boom, the firm said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Consumer demand and employee expectations are driving some of the investments. In many cases, companies are finding that their own customers and employees prefer to patronize and work at firms that are responsive to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issues. And thanks to the falling prices of renewable energy, it can be cheaper to be 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -friendly than not.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Walmart, for example, has installed more than 1.5 million energy-efficient LED light fixtures across more than 6,000 stores, parking lots, distribution centers and corporate offices in 10 countries, driving down lighting costs by hundreds of millions of dollars over the past decade, the company said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Walmart said it also exceeded its goal to double the efficiency of its trucking fleet by 2015. The retail giant said that by working with equipment manufacturers and others, it saved nearly $1 billion and avoided emissions of almost 650,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide in 2015 compared with 2005.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Sell less, make more
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Many of the nation's biggest utilities have figured out that they can make more by selling less, especially when public service commissions can guarantee them healthy rates of return.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 New Jersey-based PSEG, one of the nation's largest utilities, last month unveiled a six-year, $4.1 billion 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  plan, with two-thirds of the money aimed at boosting energy efficiency. An additional $300 million will go toward 40,000 new charging stations for electric vehicles. At the end of 2017, New Jersey had just 517 public charging stations.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I really do believe that while we pay an appropriate amount of attention to solar and wind, where we should be focusing far more of our attention is energy efficiency," said Ralph Izzo, chief executive of PSEG.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A physicist by training, Izzo said the time for action is now, because the carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere will not dissipate for centuries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We need to step up our game," he said, "and that's what we're intending to do."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The world's major oil companies - including BP, Shell and Total - contributed $100 million each to establish a fund called the Oil and Gas 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Initiative (OGCI), which invests in small companies working on technologies that could sharply cut emissions. ExxonMobil and Chevron recently joined the group.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That amount pales next to the big oil companies' commitment to oil and gas: $100 million is less than two days' capital spending for Royal Dutch Shell, for example.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We cannot continue on this capitalist-driven carbon binge and hope voluntary actions will solve the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis," said Erich Pica, head of Friends of the Earth. "The fossil fuel industry can't buy their way out of this self-created problem by tossing pennies toward small projects to save their public image."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nonetheless, Pratima Rangarajan, chief executive of the OGCI, said the money is a start and a way for big companies to find useful technologies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The fund has invested in Clarke Valve, whose co-founder Kyle Daniels said that if his firm's valves were installed in natural gas wells, they could capture 50 percent of the leaked emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Larry Fromm, a vice president at Achates Power, said that his firm has figured out how to make an internal combustion engine 30 to 50 percent more efficient. He said that Achates put one of its engines in a Ford F-150 pickup truck, the nation's best-selling vehicle, and that it had the same fuel efficiency as a Honda Accord. Fromm said Achates has licensed its technology to the U.S. Army and to 10 automobile makers.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Investor pressure
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Finding out what all of this adds up to isn't easy. But researchers are homing in on some answers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Current pledges by companies that both produce electricity and use it could lead to a reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of between 570 million and 935 million tons by 2030, according to Angel Hsu, who directs Data-Driven Yale. For comparison, the emissions of Germany, the largest emitter in Europe, were 935 million tons in 2016.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the potential is far greater. Hsu calculates that if major corporate initiatives to reduce emissions can keep enrolling major companies, there could be over a billion tons of additional gains by 2030.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Not every company walks a straight line forward. Mars, the chocolate giant, says it will reduce its emissions 27 percent by 2025 over 2015 levels, and by 67 percent by 2050. But last year, the company's greenhouse gas emissions increased slightly, a result of growth in some areas of its business.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Even among companies that recognize 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , uncertainty underlies many of the big questions: How much? How bad? When?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These are the sorts of questions on which the insurance industry is built. And yet it suffered economic losses of $125 billion from Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and economic losses of $213 billion during the three big hurricanes last year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Usually, insurers look to historic data and assume that the near future is the same or similar to what has happened in the past," said Ernst Rauch, chief 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at the insurance giant Munich Re. "With 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , this is simply not the case."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In some cases, insurance becomes more expensive for businesses and homeowners near shorelines or in flood plains. But big insurers also have new opportunities to insure properties that are suddenly dealing with growing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  perils.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Robert Litterman, co-founder of a hedge fund called Kepos Capital, has made his career calculating odds and building sophisticated models for investors. In the fund world, he is known as a "quant."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But lately Litterman has been forced out of his comfort zone. The problem? Investors keep asking about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "A lot of investors want to understand the implications of a low-carbon economy," he said. Quantifying that is difficult. And they're worried, he added, that a major 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  transition "could take place much faster than expected."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If you look at this problem from a risk-management point of view, you look at that worst-case scenario," Litterman said. "And the worst-case scenario is really, really bad."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 WRI's Steer said avoiding that outcome will require marshaling corporate and government resources.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's wonderful what [companies] are doing," he said. "But we also need governments. They are two blades of a pair of scissors, so to speak. There's no sense in having just one."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0October 14, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Letter warns of climate change's threat to security
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 6, 2019 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0859 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 More than four dozen former military and intelligence officials are rebuking President Trump for planning to counter the government's own findings that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  poses a threat to national security - warning that it's "dangerous to have national security analysis conform to politics."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 58 former generals, admirals and other national security officials sent a letter to Trump on Tuesday objecting to the idea of a White House panel to "dispute and undermine military and intelligence judgments on the threat posed by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Imposing a political test on reports issued by the science agencies, and forcing a blind spot onto the national security assessments that depend on them, will erode our national security," the letter states.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The missive comes a week and a half after top administration officials met in the White House Situation Room to discuss plans to impanel an ad hoc group of select federal scientists to scrutinize and potentially dispute the conclusions of recent federal 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  reports.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 White House officials are still determining what sort of group they will assemble to assess the government's scientific findings and whether they will eventually establish an independent federal advisory committee to scrutinize 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet the letter writers, which include heavyweights from Barack Obama's administration such as former secretary of defense Chuck Hagel and former secretary of state John F. Kerry, already worry the panel will end up unduly "second-guessing the scientific sources" that underpin the grave conclusions from most military leaders that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a menace to the nation's security.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If this was being done in good faith, it would be okay," said Andrew Holland, chief operating officer of the American Security Project. His group, along with the Center for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Security, another policy and research nonprofit focused on security issues, organized the letter.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In military and intelligence reports, military leaders predict that the impact of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will directly endanger U.S. facilities - for example, a rise in sea level is expected to increase the risk of flooding at naval bases. They also project that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will exacerbate conditions, such as drought, that lead to conflict.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Fundamentally, this is about letting the military and intelligence community do its job," said John Conger, director of the Center for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Security and former acting assistant secretary of defense for energy, installations and the environment.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Until recently, the Trump administration has been hands-off when military officials have spoken about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . While Trump has been president, at least 21 senior defense officials have called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a security threat during college speeches, congressional hearings and other public events. Even the GOP-led Congress last year passed a defense bill with language calling 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a "direct threat to the national security of the United States."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But those who put together the letter worry the new panel would represent a new phase of attack on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science. "Up until now, the national security and intelligence agencies have been allowed to conduct analysis on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and have determined that it is a national security risk," said Francesco Femia, a co-founder of the Center for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Security.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But this latest White House effort, he added, is "extraordinary, and that's why you're seeing such a significant reaction."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The letter's signatories also include rear admirals, major generals and other high-ranking officers who worked under presidents stretching all the way to Dwight D. Eisenhower. Others served extensively in Republican administrations. Geoffrey Kemp, for instance, worked as a special national security assistant to Ronald Reagan. And retired Adm. Paul Zukunft, another signer, recently left his post in the Trump administration as the Coast Guard's top officer.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The ad hoc panel plans to scrutinize the National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment published in November, produced by scientists from 13 federal agencies, that concluded that "the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are intensifying across the country."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the Situation Room meeting, deputy national security adviser Charles Kupperman said Trump, who has long questioned the overwhelming consensus among 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists that human activity is responsible for global warming, was upset that his administration had issued the National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment, as The Washington Post reported last week.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In interviews, the signatories worried in particular about the potential involvement of William Happer, a physicist who works as a senior director at the National Security Council and who has said that increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is good for the world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Retired Rear Adm. David Titley, a former oceanographer of the Navy and chief operating officer at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration who signed the letter, said Happer is "a fringe figure even within the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  denial community."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He added, "This science has been peer-reviewed by more people and more organizations than probably anything else."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 6, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nominees accept climate change but appear unworried
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 20, 2017 Friday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A06
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01231 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Brady Dennis;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Most seem focused on whether action to reverse it would affect economy
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 No so long ago, Rick Perry described the science behind human-caused 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a "contrived phony mess." On Thursday, during his confirmation hearing to become the next head of the Energy Department, the former Texas governor expressed a markedly different view - one that has begun to sound very familiar in recent days.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I believe the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," he told lawmakers. "I believe some of it is naturally occurring, but some of it is caused by man-made activity. The question is how we address it in a thoughtful way that doesn't compromise economic growth."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Almost to a person, the people whom President-elect Donald Trump has picked to run key federal agencies have echoed strikingly similar views about the warming planet and what to do, or not do, about it. Their position, which has proven maddening to many 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists, acknowledges three points: Yes, the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Humans probably have some role. But it's likely not the country's most urgent problem.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Interior secretary nominee Ryan Zinke: "I do not believe it is a hoax. ... I think where there's debate on it is what [the human] influence is, what can we do about it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Attorney general nominee Jeff Sessions: "I don't deny that we have global warming. ... It's the question of how much is happening and what the reaction would be to it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Environmental Protection Agency administrator nominee Scott Pruitt: "Science tells us that the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and human activity in some matter impacts that 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The ability to measure with precision the degree and extent of that impact and what to do about it are subject to continuing debate and dialogue, and well it should be."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A Trump transition official said Thursday that there had been no coordination with appointees on their messages around the issue. "This is an accurate reflection of what they believe, and Cabinet nominees are encouraged to give their opinion on questions when they're asked," said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to be more open about internal matters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Frank Maisano, a public affairs specialist at the law firm Bracewell, whose clients include both renewable-energy companies and oil and gas firms, argued that the position staked out mirrors that of many Republicans during the George W. Bush administration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's a position that allows you to have a framework for a policy discussion. You can't get over the hurdle and into a policy discussion if you're where we were over the last four years," Maisano said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the views of those potential Trump Cabinet members have exasperated some scientists, who fear that their comments in confirmation hearings over the past week have sown doubt about the extent of the human factor in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  despite the empirical evidence. In the scientific community, they say, there is little question that humans are the driving force behind the trends that made 2016 the hottest year in recorded history and that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is one of the most consequential problems facing the United States and other countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It sounds like an orchestrated campaign of head-in-the-sand," said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton University. "The scientific consensus is clear: Most of the warming since 1950 is the result of the buildup of the human-made greenhouse gases."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , an international body set up under the United Nations that distills the scientific consensus on the subject, has said much the same for years.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It is  extremely likely  that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century," the IPCC wrote in 2013, adding that "human influence has been detected in warming of the atmosphere and the ocean, in 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the global water cycle, in reductions in snow and ice, in global mean sea level rise, and in 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in some 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  extremes."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As for predictions, scientists don't have a crystal ball, and their 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  "model" projections aren't perfect. But what they're fundamentally doing is applying what is known about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  system, which is that carbon dioxide warms it on a grand scale and will continue to do so in the future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  views expressed by Trump's nominees aren't necessarily surprising, given the number of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -science skeptics on the transition team. For instance, Myron Ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute, who has long questioned the issue's urgency, is leading the EPA transition.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Other transition officials include George Sugiyama, an attorney who worked for Sen. James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, perhaps the biggest 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  doubter in Congress, and David Kreutzer, a Heritage Foundation economist and fellow who has argued at length that President Obama's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies can't be justified - in part because of the lack of a scientific consensus about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But while Trump has called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a hoax, his nominees have been unwilling to go there. Still, the new administration's response could resemble what happened under Bush: The issue of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  might be acknowledged at times but rarely treated with much urgency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet even 15 years ago, said James McCarthy, a professor at the Harvard University Center for the Environment, there was already widespread agreement among 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists that the majority of the planet's warming during the prior half-century was caused by the production and burning of fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Since then, greenhouse-gas concentrations in the atmosphere have increased every successive year, and we have experienced nine of the 10 warmest years in recorded 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  history. Sea level is rising faster, and Arctic sea ice is retreating further each year," McCarthy noted Thursday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The fact that the people who would lead key agencies under Trump appear to have little interest in taking aggressive counter-efforts could mean missed economic opportunities, as well, McCarthy said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Major economies around the globe are preparing to transition from polluting to clean fuels," he said. "The U.S. has led many of the developments that have reduced costs of solar and wind energy to where they are now competitive with other fuels. What a pity it would be if Mr. Trump's Cabinet secretaries let the opportunity for our nation to fully benefit from these advances slip through our fingers."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Environmental advocates worry that a lack of urgency within the new administration will translate into efforts to slow down or halt efforts by the Obama administration to tackle the problem, which Obama called "one of the most urgent challenges of our time." They fear a rollback of regulations aimed at reducing the nation's greenhouse-gas emissions, slashed funding for clean-energy technologies and an indifference or hostility toward government 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  research.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Maisano said some of those fears are unfounded, adding that even if the core debate is over, the fight over how serious a problem 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is and what to do about it is a fair one to have.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The question is, again, not how much are you aware, but what can we do about it that is reasonable and politically viable. And that's a question that's going to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  depending on who is in office."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 John Wagner contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 20, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Democrats eyeing presidential race rush to reframe climate-change plans
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 16, 2018 Sunday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A17
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01595 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Michael Scherer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 'Green New Deal' linked
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 to jobs could be a 2020 litmus test, activists say
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Spurred by dire scientific warnings and new Capitol Hill protests, Democrats preparing to run for president have been rushing to shift their plans   for combating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , highlighting an issue once considered a political liability, especially in Midwestern swing states won by President Trump.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Aides to a half-dozen senators considering a 2020 campaign met with supporters of the Green New Deal, an effort pushed by Rep.-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) that could turn into a litmus test for Democratic candidates, organizers said. Other potential candidates are weighing activist demands to swear off donations from the political action committees or executives of companies involved in fossil fuel production.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At least three potential candidates, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D), Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) have made clear that if they run, they intend to make 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a central campaign issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It just simply has to move into the front tier. It has to become a primary force of our economic growth policy," Inslee said in an interview, one day after announcing ambitious carbon-reduction goals for his state this past week.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Merkley said he would introduce his own version of a Green New Deal proposal next year. "We absolutely have to make sure this is part of the conversation going into 2020," he said. "Mother Nature is sending this message, and the youth have doubled down on the message."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the core of the push is a broader effort by some party leaders to reframe the political debate over 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  away from policies that would impose new costs on carbon pollution - through taxes or a cap-and-trade program - toward a focus on investing in energy conservation and efficiency as a way to spark economic development, especially in economically depressed areas.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This rejection of the last major Democratic push for economywide 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation in 2009 is the premise of the Green New Deal proposal that House Democrats have been steadily embracing in recent weeks. It has been presented as an alternative to legislation focused on imposing a carbon tax and then refunding the money to households in the form of checks, a move that would most benefit lower- and middle-class households because of the progressive tax code.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Given the magnitude of the current challenge, the tools of regulation and taxation, used in isolation, will not be enough to quickly and smoothly accomplish the transformation that we need to see," reads the draft proposal posted on Ocasio-Cortez's website.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The proposal instead calls for a special committee in the House to draft a plan by 2020 for a historic multitrillion-dollar federal spending and loan program with the goal of building a "100 percent greenhouse gas neutral power generation system" and providing millions of jobs in low-income areas. The plan recently gained the support of the incoming chairman of the House Rules Committee, Rep. Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), and the co-chairs of the Congressional Progressive Caucus.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Given Republican control of the Senate and likely opposition by President Trump, there is little expectation that the effort will pass into law before the upcoming presidential election, though organizers hope it will shape the debate in the interim.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There is no doubt that there has been some movement now that [congressional] offices are being occupied," said Sean McElwee, a co-founder of Data for Progress, a group that drafted an early version of the Green New Deal in September. "The reason offices are being occupied is because for a long time it seemed like we were heading into the 2020 presidential primary with no one talking about this." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Recent natural disasters and new research have also lent urgency to the conversation and expanded its audience. A federal National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment released last month found that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  would cause dramatic harm to every region of the country, costing billions of dollars from increasingly debilitating hurricanes, droughts, wildfires, heat waves and floods. Another recent report from the United Nations found that the world has only a dozen years   to take drastic action to respond to the threat.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiators from around the world struck a deal Saturday in Poland that keeps the world moving forward with plans to curb carbon emissions, but the Trump administration says it plans to withdraw the United States from the process. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Sanders, who previously endorsed a large carbon-tax plan, has said he will announce a plan next year to create millions of jobs as part of an effort to combat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The U.N. report made clear that the timeline we have to avoid the worst impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is just different from the timeline people were thinking about in years past, so rethinking these policies is something everyone should be thinking about," said Ari Rabin-Havt, a Sanders adviser. "The conversation has moved to this concept of the Green New Deal."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Young 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activists say that simply signing on to ambitious policy proposals will not be enough. Organizers of the Sunrise Movement, the group that has been staging 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  protests at the Capitol, plan to demand that Democratic 2020 candidates take a further step of promising to refuse campaign donations from executives and political committees of fossil fuel companies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Merkley joined Sanders this past week as the second potential presidential contender to have signed on to the pledge.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If any of them want to be taken seriously by our generation, they need to show they are willing to stand up to the fossil fuel polluters who have stalled action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  our whole life," said Stephen O'Hanlon, a spokesman for the Sunrise Movement. "In 2019 we are going to be putting pressure on all of them."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He said the group has been meeting with representatives of Sens. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Merkley and Sanders - all of whom are pondering presidential runs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We've been supportive of the goals of the Green New Deal," said Lily Adams, a spokeswoman for Harris.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The failure of a November statewide ballot effort to tax carbon in Washington state and the recent protests over a new fuel tax in France have shown the continued political challenge of addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rep. John Delaney (D-Md.), the only declared congressional Democrat running for president, has said politicians still need to lead with market-based solutions such as a carbon tax, while emphasizing that the "dividends" from new taxes will be distributed back to the public.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Whatever approach you take, it will inevitably be a big jobs program," he said of a recent carbon-tax bill he introduced in the House.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  solutions could create problems for Democrats in Midwestern states that continue to rely heavily on fossil fuels for electricity generation and jobs. Trump, who has repeatedly denied the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  threat and boosted the fossil fuel industry, has made clear the promotion of oil, natural gas and coal is likely to be a major part of his reelection effort.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), a potential presidential candidate, boasted during his 2012 campaign about his support for "coal jobs," the recent growth in coal production in the state and his efforts to resist new regulations on coal power plants. President Barack Obama also supported "clean coal" during his 2008 election campaign and backed an "all-of-the-above" energy strategy in 2012.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Brown was one of several Democrats who expressed concern in 2009 about the House-passed effort to impose a cap-and-trade system that would have put a price on carbon emissions, though he has supported raising fuel-economy standards, preserving Obama's "Clean Power" regulations and providing tax credits for wind, solar and biofuel generation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I've never bought that you play off workers against the environment, because what I have seen is good environmental policy means more good jobs," he said recently on Pod Save America, a liberal podcast, when he was asked about the Green New Deal. He said he did not know enough about the particulars of the proposal to take a position on it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Tom Steyer, an investor and environmental activist who is also considering a presidential campaign, has argued that the worst thing Democrats can do to tackle 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is to push top-down solutions such as a carbon tax. His recently released five-point political platform makes no mention of the warming planet, referring instead to clean air and water and a living wage.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The only way to win on energy is to talk about justice," Steyer said in a recent interview. "You can't talk about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . You have got to talk about jobs and health. This has to be simply related to human beings."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the House, the new approach marks a return to the idea that federally subsidized green jobs could be a primary way of rehabilitating economically depressed areas. The idea was floated in the run-up to the 2008 election and became a central part of the 2009 stimulus plan championed by Obama. Many activists now pushing the idea, including Ocasio-Cortez, were teenagers at the time.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Van Jones, a former Obama administration official, recently presented Ocasio-Cortez with a copy of his 2008 book "The Green Collar Economy," which argued that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  would lead to an employment boom in depressed areas. Jones used the term "green new deal" as far back as 2008.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 michael.scherer@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Steven Mufson contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 16, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 States can lead on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 12, 2018 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0794 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Larry Hogan;Ralph Northam
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Larry Hogan, a Republican, is governor of Maryland. Ralph Northam, a Democrat, is governor of Virginia. They are members of the U.S. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Alliance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Trump administration's pursuit of policies to reverse or supplant environmental laws that reduce greenhouse-gas emissions has made combating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  difficult. But where the federal government refuses to lead, state governments will.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For the sake of our future and the future of our children, it is time to put aside partisan interest and get to work.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Today,  nations from around the world are in Poland working on a common set of rules that will govern the implementation of the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement  and report on their progress. The citizens of Maryland and Virginia, as well as all those in other states across the country, have a stake in ensuring that the agreement succeeds. The difference between continuing to emit carbon at current levels and limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit), as a recent U.N. report on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  recommended, is millions of lives and billions of dollars.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That is why we support the elected officials and leaders from cities, tribes, businesses, universities, hospitals and churches who represent U.S. support for the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement. Together, this delegation of leaders will make it clear to the world that we are doing our part to keep the United States on track to fulfill the promise it made in Paris.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We are already experiencing the negative impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , as the recent National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment from 13 federal agencies made painfully clear. The impacts differ by location, but whether it's stronger storms and rising seas, or hotter heat waves and more intense wildfires, every state is grappling with the effects of a warming 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . This new report from the federal government confirms what we already know: 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  can hurt public health and cripple our economy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Our most important job as governors is ensuring the safety of our constituents. So when we face a threat to people's livelihood and way of life, showing leadership means acknowledging the risk and addressing it. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  hits Democrats and Republicans alike, and we need to work together, despite our differences, to stop it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This is why a bipartisan group of governors joined to form the U.S. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Alliance. After starting with three governors,  the alliance has now grown to 17 state leaders who have committed to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions consistent with the goals of the Paris agreement. We are united in our belief that smart, coordinated state action can ensure that the United States continues to contribute to the global effort to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Together, we are taking action to implement a range of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies - such as lowering the cost of renewable energy and promoting the use of electric vehicles.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In our home states of Maryland and Virginia, we are experiencing rising seas, more extreme weather events, regular high-tide flooding and a 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Chesapeake Bay. That's why Maryland has become a leader in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and passed a law to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 40 percent,  creating a model for others to follow. Maryland also has an active, bipartisan Commission on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone   and is a leader in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  resilience and preparedness, as well as championing green infrastructure, open space, and a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  academy for local officials and citizens. Recently, the state has announced its intention to ban the manufacture and use of hydrofluorocarbons, a super-polluting greenhouse gas.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And just to the south, Virginia has begun the process to reduce carbon pollution from power plants by 30 percent by 2030 and recently announced its intention to significantly reduce emissions of methane - a greenhouse gas that is more than 80 times  more damaging than carbon dioxide in the short term. Virginia also issued an executive order last month detailing steps to address extreme weather, including the creation of a Coastal Resilience Master Plan to protect private property and critical public assets, using nature-based infrastructure whenever possible.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Our states will continue to develop our clean- and renewable-energy supplies. We will reduce emissions from fossil fuels. And we will make plans to adapt and protect our citizens and our coastlines. These steps will help slow 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but we need help. We call on leaders of all political persuasions to get to work and cooperate across aisles and across borders - both national and international - to meet the challenge of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Larry Hogan, a Republican, is governor of Maryland. Ralph Northam, a Democrat, is governor of Virginia. They are members of the U.S. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Alliance.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 12, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate change tests Biden's consensus-building approach
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 15, 2019 Wednesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A04
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01528 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Matt Viser;John Wagner;David Weigel
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Joe Biden has spent the past two days attempting to push back against liberal criticism over his stance on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , pointing to decades-long environmental work in an effort to blunt the first major ideological skirmish of his presidential campaign.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On its face, the debate centers on his 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agenda, one that activists are preemptively criticizing before Biden formally releases his plan this month. But on a deeper level, the criticism drives at Biden's political philosophy to seek the types of consensus-building compromises that many in the Democratic base say they are in no mood to make.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Biden's approach represents a fundamental test of whether the Democratic Party has shifted out of his grasp in recent years - to one that punches back hard against the Trump-controlled Republican Party with a sharply liberal agenda - or whether it is one that wants a return to bipartisan bonhomie.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Biden often preaches the merits of working with Republicans - calling them good and decent at their core - and calls President Trump an aberration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The thing that will fundamentally 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  with Donald Trump out of the White House, not a joke," he said on Tuesday in New Hampshire, "is you will see an epiphany occur among many of my Republican friends."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If we can't 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  it, we're in trouble," he added. "This nation cannot function without generating consensus. It can't do it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He told a story about learning to respect Republicans he served with during his 36 years in the Senate. And he launched into extended remarks lamenting the time he discovered that a private dining room for senators had been converted into a room with just lounge chairs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  "Folks, you gotta get to know the other team," he said. "Get to know them personally."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Biden has yet to announce many policies - repeatedly telling crowds that he would get into more detail except he doesn't want to force them to stand for too long. But in some areas, he seems prepared to move to the left of the Obama administration, if keeping to the right of some of his primary rivals.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On health care, for example, he has been open to a public option that would give Americans a choice to buy into a Medicare-like health insurance plan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That option goes beyond the Affordable Care Act but falls short of the Medicare-for-all plan pushed by others.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has emerged as one of his key early tests.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The tension was on display Monday night as a large crowd of liberal activists repeatedly booed references to a Reuters report that the former vice president would seek a "middle ground" on what they consider a defining issue in the crowded Democratic field.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At a rally for the Green New Deal attended by about 1,500 activists at Howard University, speaker after speaker criticized Biden's reported position, which Reuters attributed to a campaign adviser.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "What we learned from the Obama administration is unless we find middle ground on these issues, we risk not having any policies," Heather Zichal, one of Biden's advisers on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , told Reuters. Zichal did not respond to several requests for comment from The Washington Post.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Biden has since pushed back against the report, and has promised a major speech later this month outlining his environmental priorities. But that did little to quell concerns among those who attended the event organized by the left-wing Sunrise Movement, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who is also seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Who here liked it when Joe Biden said he was middle of the road on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy?" asked Alexandra Rojas, executive director of Justice Democrats, a left-wing campaign group that is attacking Biden on social media.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Ocasio-Cortez, who is neutral in the presidential race but has repeatedly teamed up with Sanders, also went after Biden without using his name. After she criticized "conservatives in both parties" who did not have a comprehensive plan to transition from fossil fuels, an audience member shouted, "No middle ground!"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "No middle ground is right!" Ocasio-Cortez said. "I will be damned if the same politicians who refused to act [earlier] come back today and say we need a middle-of-the-road approach to save our lives."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Biden, who offered an initial defense Monday evening before Ocasio-Cortez spoke, responded more fully on Tuesday morning.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Look at my record. She'll find that nobody has been more consistent about taking on the environment and a green revolution than I have," he said. "And so, look, anyways - I don't think she was talking about me."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Biden has often pointed to remarks he gave in 1987, a time when 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was not on the national radar and before Ocasio-Cortez was born.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Global warming, should it occur in accord with the direst predictions, would be a catastrophe of biblical proportions for the entire world," he said in a Senate floor speech. "The human activities that could bring it about - the inefficient burning of fossil fuels . . . the destruction of tropical forests - are occurring right now. And unless these activities are 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the next few years . . . a disastrous and irreversible warming could become inevitable."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He pushed legislation that would form a task force that would be mandated to study global warming and come up with recommendations for further action.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's a long campaign. And everybody should just calm - they should just calm down a little bit," Biden said Tuesday as he munched on a muffin in Concord, N.H. "Take a look at my record from before. There's been nothing middle of the road about my record dealing with the environment. Nothing."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a statement to The Post, former secretary of state John F. Kerry, the U.S. negotiator for the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord - the multinational agreement to limit greenhouse emissions - praised Biden.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Joe is ambitious on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and energy," Kerry said. "The 'middle' they're talking about is building a new 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  coalition that unites true believers with blue collar workers who will build the energy of tomorrow."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Joe has been a leader on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  since the first 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill in 1987," he added. "Everyone should wait to see his plan. His record has earned him that much and more."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20   It's unclear how close Biden's new plan will come to the goals embodied in the Green New Deal, a plan introduced by Ocasio-Cortez and Sen. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) that envisions the United States achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions within a decade while also guaranteeing Americans high-paying jobs and high-quality health care.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The plan has won broad support among Democratic activists - while earning less support among Democrats overall - and has been endorsed by several of the party's presidential hopefuls. But it has been heavily criticized by Republicans, who argue that it is unrealistic and part of a lurch toward socialism by Democrats.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In New Hampshire, Biden, as he has on several issues during his first few weeks as a candidate, pointed to the accomplishments during the Obama administration, in which he served. He cited investments made in clean energy as part of economic stimulus legislation, as well as an increase in the fuel-efficiency standards for passenger vehicles.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Why in God's name did this president freeze that?" Biden said, referring to Trump. "Even the automobile companies were for it. Because they know they can't compete in the world without having more-energy-efficient cars and electric vehicles."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sanders, who like Ocasio-Cortez spoke at Monday night's rally in Washington, did not criticize Biden by name. But he criticized candidates who he said had only a tepid commitment to fighting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We have an overall economy that is rigged and a political system that is corrupt," he said. "A lot of people, say, 'Well, I want to combat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but, you know, I don't want to take on the fossil fuel industry.' That is not the way it happens."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sanders took more-direct aim at Biden last week after the Reuters report was published.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There is no 'middle ground' when it comes to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy," he said in a tweet. "If we don't commit to fully transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels, we will doom future generations."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Other 2020 hopefuls also referred to the report as they sought to distinguish themselves from Biden.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 " 'Middle-ground' approaches and half measures won't cut it," Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D), who has put 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  at the center of his presidential bid, said in a tweet. "We need a large-scale national mobilization to defeat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and grow millions of jobs in a clean energy economy."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some in the crowd Monday night suggested that a plan from Biden that falls short of the Green New Deal would be disappointing, but not necessarily a dealbreaker.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If Biden is the nominee and he never supported or never signed a pledge to support the Green New Deal, it would be tough to vote for him, but I'd do it," said Elly Ren, 18, a student at Johns Hopkins, as she cut out images of Sanders and Ocasio-Cortez for a poster. "I guess we'd just have to put pressure on him in the White House."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 matt.viser@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 john.wagner@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 david.weigel@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 15, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wrestling the gator that is climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 23, 2015 Thursday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A04
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0972 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0David Nakamura;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK, FLA.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK, Fla. - Missing was the usual crowd of supporters behind him and the red-white-and-blue bunting of a typical presidential rally. When President Obama arrived at this federally protected tropical wetlands Wednesday, he took his place at a lectern with only a vast, marshy field as a backdrop.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The goal of the president's first trip to the Everglades was to highlight the natural environment - and the risks, he said, of ignoring the effects of global warming on places like it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You do not have time to deny the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," Obama told an audience of several dozen guests, including a handful of Florida politicians. "Nowhere will it have a bigger impact than here in South Florida. . . . We have to pay closer attention and acknowledge that if we take action now, we can do something about it. We can solve it, if we got some political will."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Despite the absence of the usual trappings of a presidential visit, the political context was unmistakable: Obama's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -focused trip on Earth Day was aimed at goading Florida Republicans - including Gov. Rick Scott and two presidential contenders, former governor Jeb Bush and Sen. Marco Rubio - to engage him on the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 White House advisers think that could be fruitful for the Democrats leading up to the 2016 elections - even if it is unlikely to rejuvenate the president's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agenda on Capitol Hill, where GOP opposition has stalled the administration's legislative efforts.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Obama didn't mention any Republicans by name - other than former presidents Theodore Roosevelt, Richard Nixon and George H.W. Bush, who he credited with establishing the national park system, launching the Environmental Protection Agency and recognizing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , respectively.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Obama mocked the GOP pointedly when he referred to Sen. Jim Inhofe's stunt in February, when he brought a snowball to the Senate floor to argue that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a hoax.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Yes, this winter was cold in some parts of the country, including Washington," Obama said. "Some people in Washington helpfully used a snowball to illustrate that fact. But around the world, in aggregate, it was the warmest winter ever recorded.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "That has serious implications for the way we live right now," he continued. "Stronger storms, deeper droughts, longer wildfire seasons."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The friction with Republicans was evident by Scott's refusal to show up at the Miami airport to greet Obama on the tarmac, even though the White House had invited him. A day earlier, Scott had charged that the Obama administration has failed to provide "$58 million in backlog funding" to Everglades National Park. The administration countered that it has spent $2.2 billion overall on Everglades restoration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters that Scott's administration had sought to clamp down on the ability of state environmental employees to even mention the phrase "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " - allegations that Scott's administration denied.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The sharp dividing line on the issue has already emerged on the campaign trail, with several GOP candidates, including Rubio and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), expressing skepticism about the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In an interview last weekend, Rubio told CBS News: "What I said was that humans are not responsible for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the way that some of these people out there are trying to make us believe for the following reason: I believe the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  because there has never been a moment when the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is not 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The question is what percentage of that - or what is due to human activity?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Spokespeople for Bush and Rubio did not comment for this article.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Obama's trip to Florida was part of a week of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related events at the White House. The president announced a $25 million fund of public and private money to restore and maintain national parks, and he designated a new historical landmark, the Marjory Stoneman Douglas House in Miami, in honor of a conservationist who worked on the Everglades. He also said his administration would grant all fourth-grade students and their families free passes to national parks for a year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But those initiatives are small-scale. Obama also highlighted a far more ambitious gambit: his pact with China to significantly reduce greenhouse gases by 2025.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "That gives new hope this year that the world will finally reach agreement to prevent the worst impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  before it's too late," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Florida, and especially southeast Florida, is a politically textured state where the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issue has been growing in salience. That's evidenced by a move by the counties of highly populous (and politically diverse) southeast Florida - Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach and Monroe - to form the Southeast Florida Regional 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Compact to coordinate their efforts on such matters as staving off the threat of sea-level rise.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A recent survey by the Yale Project on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Communication found that 56 percent of Floridians think that global warming is at least partly caused by human activities, versus only 42 percent who think it is "not happening/natural."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That makes the state fertile ground for Obama to highlight costly 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risks, such as threats to tourism dollars and water supplies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Before his remarks, Obama took a walking tour of the area, and a park ranger pointed out an alligator to him. He also sat down for an interview with Bill Nye the Science Guy, a popular television host who defends the science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As he made his case, Obama hedged only briefly in his embrace of Mother Nature.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "South Florida is the only place in the world where you can find both alligators and crocodiles in the same habitat," he said, pausing for a moment before adding: "I'm told this is a good thing."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 david.nakamura@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 23, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Leading On Climate Change; How Action in Congress Can Move the World
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 29, 2008 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2008 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0847 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Tony Blair
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill that senators are to begin debating next week is a hugely important signal of intent on behalf of U.S. legislators. Yes, negotiations could still alter the legislation. But the bill's core proposition is correct: Unless the United States radically reduces its greenhouse gas emissions, along with other major emitters, the damage to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will be irreversible.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Radical reduction is unlikely to happen through voluntary action alone. Measures in the bill, through a mandatory cap-and-trade scheme, would reduce emissions 70 percent from 2005 levels by 2050. These cuts would be based on a carbon market incentive system that moves with the grain of action around the globe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Over the past few years, the debate on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has shifted profoundly. The scientific consensus that human activity is causing global warming has become overwhelming. The effect of unabated 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is shocking and, as was shown by the report of Sir Nicholas Stern -- the first authoritative study of the economics of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , commissioned by the British government in 2006 -- it is far riskier economically to ignore 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  than to act to abate it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 New environmental technologies, in fact, already drive a multibillion-dollar industry. Last year, an estimated $148 billion was invested in clean-energy technologies, companies and projects, a 60 percent increase from 2006.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Round the planet, people are developing exciting technologies, 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  their behavior and agitating for action so that responsibility on the environment will come in a way that is consistent with necessary economic growth.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Meanwhile, fears over energy security create a synergy with the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  debate. With oil  above $130  a barrel, there are reasons to act irrespective of concern for the atmosphere. Reducing carbon dependency also goes to the heart of our basic security needs for the future. I have long thought that energy policy is only a small way behind defense in terms of strategic importance to our way of life.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Much is happening abroad. Europe has introduced the Emissions Trading System, with over half of emissions now tradable; despite the early teething troubles to be expected from any new policy framework, the system is delivering emissions reductions and sending a clear, market-based signal to companies across the continent. Japan has indicated that it is open to a binding national target. China has already set new energy intensity targets. India is to unveil its first national 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action plan in the next few weeks.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Israel recently announced support for a project that aims to add 100,000 electric cars to its roads by the end of 2010, providing tax incentives that will make those cars cheaper than gas-powered cars as a first step toward moving completely to electric.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Group of Eight major industrialized nations will have 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  high on their agenda at their July meeting. At the same time, President Bush will hold the Major Economies Meeting.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Clean Development Mechanism, while also by no means perfect, has established a basis for channeling resources efficiently to finance emissions reduction across the developing world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Clearly, many countries and companies are realizing that, far from being a detriment to their economies, acting early to cut emissions can increase productivity and give them a competitive edge. And it's not just outside the United States: A majority of U.S. states have 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action plans, and many American cities are already working toward emissions reductions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Hanging over all of this progress, however, is a political reality: There will be no consequential action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  unless there is a global deal. For that to happen, the United States has to lead to ensure that we have an effective agreement in which China and India take part.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Science shows that the world must move to a low-carbon economy. America could use its technology and entrepreneurial spirit to drive this revolution.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's why the legislation sponsored by Sens. Barbara Boxer, Joe Lieberman and John Warner matters. It says -- and shows -- that America will act. It will allow the United States to say to others: You must act, too.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The U.N. process has produced the formula: There should be common but differentiated obligations for developing and developed nations. A great ambition, but what does it mean? That is the subject of the project I am leading that will produce its first report at the end of June.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Without an American commitment, a global deal is impossible. This is an important moment where the United States can show strong leadership. If the United States commits to the 50 percent global target for a reduction in emissions by mid-century and to legislation that mandates action, it will transform the prospects for effective 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It would allow this country to shape the debate and, most important, the solution. I hope it happens.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer was British prime minister from 1997 to 2007. He recently launched the Breaking the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Deadlock initiative to promote a new global agreement on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 29, 2008
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Firms Start to See Climate Change as Barrier to Profit
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 21, 2009 Monday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A05
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0961 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Juliet Eilperin
\f0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f3\fs20 Washington Post Staff Writer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 As the real-world impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  begin to materialize and regulation of greenhouse gases appears more likely, corporate America has begun to grapple with a challenging question: How do you quantify the risks associated with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The answer depends on one's perspective. But companies are beginning to show increased willingness to disclose the extent to which they're contributing to global warming and what they're doing to keep it from harming their business.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If we don't move now, it just becomes more expensive, more complicated and a bigger risk," said Brad Figel, director of government affairs at Nike, at a Capitol Hill briefing last week sponsored by Oxfam America.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On Monday, the Carbon Disclosure Project is set to release a 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 report
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  surveying the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies of the majority of the S&P 500, in which 52 percent of respondents said they've set emissions-reduction targets for the companies, compared with 32 percent last year. Many of these groups also see global warming as a threat to their bottom lines -- including 84 percent of financial-sector respondents -- citing concerns including a potential shortage of raw materials and supply-chain disruptions because of severe weather.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When it comes to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , corporations "are demonstrating they are willing, ready and able to engage with it," said Carbon Disclosure Project chief executive Paul Dickinson. "We are moving, without any doubt, into a carbon-constrained world," he added.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers say that some of the prescriptions to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , such as the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill passed by the House in June, present more risks to the economy than global warming does.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But a number of companies have split with the chamber to back the House bill and are taking steps to curb their own carbon footprints.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Anna Walker, senior manager for worldwide government affairs and public policy at Levi Strauss, said 95 percent of her company's offerings are made from cotton. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related water shortages threaten cotton supplies, to say nothing of the tornadoes and floods that could threaten the company's cut-and-sew operations in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Vietnam and other countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is very practical and happening for us," Walker said. "We really do get it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Companies that depend heavily on the goodwill of both consumers and their employees are also sensitive to the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is top of mind for our customers right now," said Jim Hanna, Starbucks's director of environmental impact, who added that the company is aware that its workers are also eyeing its business practices and public policy positions. "For us to attract the best talent coming out of college, and for us to retain that talent over time, we've got to operate that way."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But calculating a firm's emissions, as well as how much of a risk 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  may pose to the business in the future, can be complicated. Dickinson's group -- which represents 475 institutional investors that manage $55 trillion in funds -- is working with the world's four biggest accounting firms to establish the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Disclosure Standards Board, which aims to make greenhouse-gas reporting more uniform.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Ceres, a Boston-based network of investors, environmental organizations and public-interest groups, has petitioned the Securities and Exchange Commission to require companies to report 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risks as part of their regular financial disclosures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It is such a material risk that it needs to be moved from off the balance sheets into the formal disclosure that needs to be made," said Ceres President Mindy Lubber. "To build our economy, we need to be looking at all the risks and opportunities related to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and water and other limited resources that we use to fuel our economy."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 SEC staff is looking at the issue this fall, according to agency spokesman John Nester, though he did not indicate when the agency might make a decision on the matter.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Environmental Protection Agency is about to issue a final rule, as early as this week, that would establish the nation's first mandatory greenhouse-gas registry. Under the rule, any entity emitting the equivalent of 25,000 tons of carbon dioxide a year would have to declare how much pollution it releases into the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Lou Leonard, director of U.S. policy on international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  affairs for the World Wildlife Fund, said programs like the Carbon Disclosure Project and the WWF's 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Savers, where private companies made voluntary commitments to cut their emissions, "had an important role to play" in the past, in part because they helped companies "internalize greenhouse-gas emissions as part of their business operations." But he added, "We cannot let them substitute for mandatory, economy-wide limits in these key countries" that emit the most carbon pollution.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Wal-Mart has instituted a range of measures aimed at cutting its emissions, including adopting a more fuel-efficient fleet and installing skylights that can substitute on sunny days for electrical lighting. But as a growing global company, it still boasts an expanding carbon footprint, increasing at a compound rate of 4.3 percent a year even as its emissions relative to sales have decreased by the same proportion.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We're still growing, but we're getting more efficient at it," said Greg Trimble, Wal-Mart's senior director for global energy development and reporting.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the meantime, corporate types such as Nike's Figel are trying to convince lawmakers that capping greenhouse gas emissions and providing money so vulnerable countries can adapt to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  makes sense.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "People would say to us, 'You really don't have any skin in the game,' " he said. "No one really thought about what it would do to our supply chain."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs28 Graphic
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 IMAGE; Photos Courtesy Of Wal-mart
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE; SAVING ENERGY OUTSIDE . . . : Atop a Wal-Mart in Las Vegas is a daylight harvesting system, which includes an array of skylights. As the amount of natural light increases, the light levels inside the store decrease.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE; . . . AND INSIDE: Wal-Mart uses LED lighting in many of its freezer cases. LEDs use less energy than fluorescent lights and produce less heat.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 21, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Extreme climate change is here
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 August 14, 2019 Wednesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a03154 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson;Chris Mooney;Juliet Eilperin;John Muyskens;Salwan Georges
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0LAKE HOPATCONG, N.J.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 LAKE HOPATCONG, N.J. - Before 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  thawed the winters of New Jersey, this lake hosted boisterous wintertime carnivals. As many as 15,000 skaters took part, and automobile owners would drive onto the thick ice. Thousands watched as local hockey clubs battled one another, and the Skate Sailing Association of America held competitions, including one in 1926 that featured 21 iceboats on blades that sailed over a three-mile course.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In those days before widespread refrigeration, workers flocked here to harvest ice. They would carve blocks as much as two feet thick, float them to giant ice houses, sprinkle them with sawdust and load them onto rail cars bound for iceboxes in New York City and beyond.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "These winters do not exist anymore," says Marty Kane, a lawyer and head of the Lake Hopatcong Foundation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's because a century of climbing temperatures has 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the character of the Garden State. The massive ice industry and skate sailing association are but black-and-white photographs at the local museum. And even the hardy souls who still try to take part in ice fishing contests here have had to cancel 11 of the past dozen competitions for fear of straying onto perilously thin ice and tumbling into the frigid water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 New Jersey may seem an unlikely place to measure 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but it is one of the fastest-warming states in the nation. Its average temperature has climbed by close to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) since 1895 - double the average for the Lower 48 states.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Over the past two decades, the 2-degree Celsius number has emerged as a critical threshold for global warming. In the 2015 Paris accord, international leaders agreed that the world should act urgently to keep the Earth's average temperature increases "well below" 2 degrees                 Celsius b             y the year 2100 to avoid a host of catastrophic 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The potential consequences are daunting. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  warns that if Earth heats up by an average of 2 degrees, virtually all the world's coral reefs will die; retreating ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica could unleash massive sea level rise; and summertime Arctic sea ice, a shield against further warming, would begin to disappear.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But global warming does not heat the world evenly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A Washington Post analysis of more than a century of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration temperature data across the Lower 48 states and 3,107 counties has found that major areas are nearing or have already crossed the                 2-degree Celsius              mark.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - Today, more than 1 in 10 Americans - 34 million people - are living in rapidly  heating regions, including New York City and Los Angeles. Seventy-one counties have already hit the 2C mark.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - Alaska is the fastest-warming state in the country, but Rhode Island is the first state in the Lower 48 whose average temperature rise has eclipsed 2 degrees. Other parts of the Northeast - New Jersey, Connecticut, Maine and Massachusetts - trail close behind. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - While many people associate global warming with summer's melting glaciers, forest fires and disastrous flooding, it is higher winter temperatures that have made New Jersey and nearby Rhode Island the fastest warming of the Lower 48 states. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The average New Jersey temperature from December through February now exceeds 32 degrees Fahrenheit, the temperature at which water freezes. That threshold, reached over the past three decades, has meant lakes don't freeze as often, snow melts more quickly, and insects and pests don't die as they once did in the harsher cold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The freezing point "is the most critical threshold among all temperatures," said David A. Robinson, New Jersey state climatologist and professor at Rutgers University's department of geography. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The uneven rise in temperatures across the United States matches what is happening around the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the past century, the Earth has warmed 1 degree Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit). But that's just an average. Some parts of the globe - including the mountains of Romania and the steppes of Mongolia - have registered increases twice as large. It has taken decades or in some cases a century. But for huge swaths of the planet, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a present-tense reality, not one looming ominously in the distant future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To find the world's 2C hot spots, its fastest-warming places, The Post analyzed temperature databases, including those kept by NASA and NOAA; peer-reviewed scientific studies; and reports by local climatologists. The global data sets draw upon thousands of land-based weather stations and other measurements, such as ocean buoys armed with sensors and ship logs dating as far back as 1850. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In any one geographic location, 2 degrees Celsius may not represent global cataclysmic 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but it can threaten ecosystems, 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  landscapes and upend livelihoods and cultures. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Lake Hopatcong, thinning ice let loose waves of aquatic weeds that ordinarily die in the cold. This year, a new blow: Following one of the warmest springs of the past century, harmful bacteria known as blue-green algae bloomed in the lake just as the tourist season was taking off in June. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 New Jersey's largest lake was shut down after the state's environmental agency warned against swimming or fishing "for weeks, if not longer."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The nation's hot spots will get worse, absent a global plan to slash emissions of the greenhouse gases fueling 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . By the time the impacts are fully recognized, the 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  may be irreversible. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Daniel Pauly, an influential marine scientist at the University of British Columbia, says the 2-degree hot spots are early warning sirens of a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  shift. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Basically," he said, "these hot spots are chunks of the future in the present." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 America's hot spots
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Nationwide, trends are clear. Starting in the late 1800s, U.S. temperatures began to rise and continued slowly up through the 1930s. The nation then cooled slightly for several decades. But starting around 1970, temperatures rose steeply. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the county level, the data reveals isolated 2-degree clusters: high-altitude deserts in Oregon; stretches of the western Rocky Mountains that feed the Colorado River; a clutch of counties along the northeastern shore of Lake Michigan - home to the famed Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore near Traverse City. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Along the Canadian border, a string of counties from eastern Montana to Minnesota are quickly heating up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The topography of warming varies. It is intense at some high elevations, such as in Utah and Colorado, and along some highly populated coasts: Temperatures have risen by 2C in Los Angeles and three neighboring counties. New York City is also warming rapidly, and so are the very different areas around it, such as the beach resorts in the Hamptons and leafy Westchester County. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The smaller the area, the more difficult it is to pinpoint the cause of warming. Urban heat effects, 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  air pollution levels, ocean currents, events like the Dust Bowl, and natural 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  wobbles such as El Ni\'c3\'b1o could all be playing some role, experts say. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The only part of the United States that has not warmed significantly since the late 1800s is the South, especially Mississippi and Alabama, where data in some cases shows modest cooling. Scientists have attributed this "warming hole" to atmospheric cycles driven by the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, along with particles of soot from smokestacks and tailpipes, which have damaging health effects but can block some of the sun's intensity. Those types of pollutants were curtailed by environmental policies, while carbon dioxide remained unregulated for decades.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Since the 1960s, however, the region's temperatures have been increasing along with the rest of the country's. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Northeast is warming especially fast.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Anthony Broccoli, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at Rutgers, defines an unusually warm or cold month as ranking among the five most extreme in the record going back to the late 1800s. In the case of New Jersey, he says, "since 2000, we've had 39 months that were unusually warm and zero that were unusually cold." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Scientists do not completely understand the Northeast hot spot. But fading winters and very warm water offshore are the most likely culprits, experts say. That's because 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a cycle that feeds on itself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Warmer winters mean less ice and snow cover. Normally, ice and snow reflect solar radiation back into space, keeping the planet relatively cool. But as the ice and snow retreat, the ground absorbs the solar radiation and warms. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 NOAA data shows that in every Northeast state except Pennsylvania, the temperatures of the winter months of December through February have risen by 2 degrees Celsius since 1895-1896. And U.S. Geological Survey data shows that ice breaks up in New England lakes nine to 16 days earlier than in the 19th century. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This doesn't mean the states can't have extreme winters anymore. Polar vortex events, in which frigid Arctic air descends into the heart of the country, can still bring biting cold. But the overall trend remains the same and is set to continue. One recent study found that by the time the entire globe crosses 2 degrees the Northeast can expect to have risen by about 3 degrees Celsius (5.4 degrees Fahrenheit), with winter temperatures higher still. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Losing 3 feet of beach a year
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  plays havoc differently in different places. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In Rhode Island, Narragansett Bay has warmed as much as 1.6 degrees Celsius (2.9 degrees Fahrenheit) in the past 50 years, and for want of cooler water, the state's lobster catch has plummeted 75 percent in the past two decades.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Along the shoreline, the hotter and higher sea is shuffling the lineup of oceanfront homes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Roy Carpenter's Beach is a collection of summer cottages along a quarter-mile stretch that is eroding faster than any other part of the state - an average of 3.3 feet a year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rob Thoresen's great-grandfather bought the property nearly a century ago, and residents living in 377 cottages there now lease the land from the family business.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 About a decade ago, the family tried - in vain - to persuade residents to move away from the encroaching ocean. Their reluctance was no surprise; the back of the property features a view of cornfields.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But then the coast took an indirect hit from Hurricane Sandy. It damaged 11 homes in the community's front row, with three of them washing out to sea. The surf laps over the remains of concrete foundations and wooden pylons, knocking over construction fences.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2013, 28 families in the first and second rows started moving to the back of the development - roughly 1,000 feet away. The community is planning to move another 20 houses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is expensive. Homeowners pay to physically move their cottages or demolish them and rebuild. Matunuck Beach Properties, the management company, must survey the properties and prepare new locations, laying out new roads and sewer pipes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Tony Loura, who has summered in Roy Carpenter's Beach for 15 years, is philosophical about his predicament. He is on the fourth row, where he has an unobstructed view of the ocean from his rocking chair. He estimates that he used to be 1,000 feet from the water. Now, the ocean is only about 150 feet away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I'm hoping that I'm back far enough that I won't have to move to the back," said Loura, 66. "Every time they say there's a storm, I get worried."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 With 420 miles of coastline, Rhode Island is particularly vulnerable to the vagaries of the Gulf Stream, a massive warm current that travels up the East Coast from the Gulf of Mexico before making a right turn toward Greenland and Europe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Gulf Stream is enormous, encompassing more water than "all of the world's rivers combined," according to NOAA. It is one part of an even larger global "conveyor belt" of currents that transport heat around the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A slowing of these currents, which scientists think is caused by the melting of Arctic ice, has pushed the Gulf Stream closer to the East Coast, bringing more warm water and, perhaps, hotter temperatures onshore. Offshore, it has become its own hot spot, helping to boost water temperatures by                 2 degrees Celsius              or more in some regions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If the slowing   continues, seas could rise farther and faster. That's because when the current slows, water it was driving toward Europe drifts back across the Atlantic to the U.S. coastline. Scientists are trying to determine whether the Gulf Stream is already contributing to rapid sea level rise on the East Coast.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Tidal gauges show sea levels have risen roughly nine inches since 1930, and researchers at the University of Rhode Island have determined that the rate has quickened by about a third in recent years.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 By 2030, sea level rise will flood 605 buildings six times a year, according to the Rhode Island Coastal Resources Management Council's executive director, Grover Fugate.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Roy Carpenter's Beach is especially vulnerable.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some residents want the beach's owners to fight off the sea, Loura said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They think they should build a sea wall, they should bring in tons of sand," he said. "Last year, they spent a lot of money on sand. Guess what? It's all gone."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Thoresen's family is moving a convenience store and office for the second time in a decade - this time all the way back to the 18th row. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We moved it back 100 feet, and it only bought us 10 years," Thoresen said. "That's crazy."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's what people who live in 2-degree zones are discovering: that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  seems remote or invisible, until all of a sudden it is inescapable.   
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 'The ice is not safe anymore'
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Here at Lake Hopatcong, Tim Clancy, 65, a ruddy-faced fisherman and retiree, has helped run the annual ice fishing contests for years. He has a photo of himself taken in 2015, standing in the middle of the frozen lake, a string of four perch dangling from one hand, his 400-pound all-terrain buggy parked on the ice behind him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It was like a tailgate party. Midnight madness. People camped out with their snowmobiles," he says. "But the ice is not safe anymore." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the Lake Hopatcong Foundation offices, director Kane recalls that the lake used to freeze over by Thanksgiving and now rarely does so before January.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 According to records kept by the local Knee Deep Club, a fishing group, 26 fishing contests were canceled because of poor ice conditions from 1998 through 2019. Only 19 were held successfully. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nine miles long, Lake Hopatcong sits between two counties - Sussex and Morris - in the state's northwest. Both have been warming fast, especially in winter. According to The Post's review of New Jersey data, winter temperatures in Sussex have increased 2.6 degrees Celsius (4.7 degrees Fahrenheit) since the winter of 1895-1896. For Morris, the winter increase has been slightly sharper 2.7 degrees Celsius (4.9 degrees Fahrenheit).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Robinson, the state climatologist, found that January temperatures in Sussex County generally need to average around 25 to 26 degrees Fahrenheit  for successful ice fishing.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Instead, average winter temperatures are moving closer to the freezing point, with some winters now exceeding 32 degrees Fahrenheit.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is not just the lake that is being wracked by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 From the Jersey Shore to the shopping malls of Paramus, from hiking trails in the northwest to the Bayway oil refinery, the state faces exceptionally heavy and unpredictable rainfall - even for New Jersey. Last year, it was inundated by a record 64.77 inches of rainfall statewide, 40 percent above average. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Pests, no longer eradicated by cold winters, are attacking people, crops and landscapes alike.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The                 1/8             -inch-long southern pine beetle had been largely confined to southern U.S. forests - hence its name. But the warmer temperatures have spurred the beetle's migration north, where it has damaged more than 20,000 acres of the state's Pine Barrens, a vast coastal forested plain that Congress has defined as a national reserve.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They are 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the Pinelands," says Matthew Ayres, a Dartmouth researcher who has studied the beetle. "It may not be too long before people are driving through the Pinelands saying, 'Why do they call it the Pinelands?' " 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mosquitoes, once dubbed on postcards as New Jersey's "air force," have longer seasons. The Warren County Mosquito Control Commission, whose records date to 1987, uses fixed-wing aircraft to drop a granular, naturally occurring soil microbe on swamps to kill the mosquito larvae. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the bugs may be winning the air war. The commission's flights are more frequent, and the past eight years, led by 2018, have had the highest numbers of acres treated annually.  Mosquitoes carrying West Nile virus came up from the South 20 years ago. Last year, Warren became the last county in the state to register human cases of the disease.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Mosquito season used to start on June 1 and end on Sept. 30," said Rutgers professor Dina Fonseca, an expert on insect-borne disease. But unless the air war starts earlier in the spring, "you're not going to address the mosquito problem."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 'Completely dead'
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 On a cool but sunny day in May, Fred Lubnow, director of aquatic programs at Princeton Hydro, and Katie Walston, a senior scientist there, pulled up their anchor in Lake Hopatcong to find it covered with aquatic weeds. The culprit? Fertilizer runoff combined with winters too warm to kill them off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The plants start growing earlier and linger around longer, as well," Lubnow said. The thick ice blocked sunlight from nurturing the weeds. But "in some of these shallow areas, as early as February, we're looking through the ice seeing the plants growing." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 By summer, the weeds become a nuisance, forcing the state government to "harvest" them with large paddles and toss them onto a conveyor belt, then onto barges. Some years, funding has been hard to get, delaying harvesting and angering homeowners.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If this area is not harvested, you can't get a boat through it," Lubnow says. Swimming isn't possible, either. Fishing becomes difficult. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In late June, disaster struck.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection detected toxic bacteria known as blue-green algae. Aerial photos showed the telltale large streaks of "pea soup" across the lake. The agency urged people to avoid swimming, wading and watersport activities such as jet-skiing, kayaking, windsurfing and paddleboarding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's almost put us out of business," says John Clark, co-owner of Little Nicki's Italian restaurant, which looks out onto the lake. Little Nicki's does nearly a tenth of its business over the first two weekends in July and is usually jammed the afternoon before July 4. Yet there were only three people there that day. Clark estimated that business was down by half.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's completely dead. Everyone was having a banner year. Then you hit a wall."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 juliet.eilperin@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 john.muyskens@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0August 14, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fogging Up Those Old-Time Forecasts; Traditional Almanacs Ponder Meaning of Climate Change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 10, 2008 Wednesday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2008 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Virginia
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0METRO; Pg. B01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01167 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0David A. Fahrenthold
\f0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f3\fs20 Washington Post Staff Writer
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0HAGERSTOWN, Md.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 They call themselves "prognosticators," people who study the phases of the moon and the height of wasp nests, then declare there will be showers on Oct. 18, 2009.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Prognosticators create long-range weather charts for the handful of surviving farmer's almanacs -- an old job, done an old way. They eschew Doppler radar and weather satellites and look for clues in the timeless rhythms of nature.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But now, the world and the weather don't look as timeless as they used to. Scientists say the planet is warming, threatening to make droughts more widespread, heat waves more punishing and hurricanes more severe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So one of the country's most fervently unmodern subcultures has had to confront 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Prognosticators are deciding how -- or if -- they should factor greenhouse gases into weather-predicting formulas that are two centuries old.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Traditional methods "worked really well for hundreds of years," said Bill O'Toole, prognosticator for the Washington area's local almanac, J. Gruber's Hagers-Town Town and Country Almanack, founded in 1797. "Global warming has kind of messed it up," said O'Toole, who has started predicting shorter winters and less snow than in the past.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But yesterday, one of the giants of the almanac world pronounced in the opposite direction. The Old Farmer's Almanac, based in Dublin, N.H., predicted "global cooling" for the next two decades. The forecast was based on an expected 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in sunspots and ocean temperatures, still better-understood factors than 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , said the almanac's editor, Janice Stillman.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We're looking forward to cooler-than-normal conditions for quite some time," Stillman said in a telephone interview. "We just simply don't predict what kind of effect greenhouse gases . . . may have on that."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Across the country, this is almanac season. The 2009 versions of these old-timey books are arriving in stores, from such behemoths as the 3.5 million-circulation Farmers' Almanac in Maine to the struggling almanac in Hagerstown, which will print 75,000 copies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Almanacs were designed as both entertainment and how-to books for frontier families. They still have old eclecticism: brisket recipes, corny jokes, lists of the vice presidents. And the weather predictions remain a big draw.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The forecasts are far-reaching and, not surprisingly, tend to vary from book to book. "Blustery and colder" is the Maine almanac's prediction for Dec. 31, 2009, in the Mid-Atlantic. "Cloudy, not as cold," the Hagerstown almanac says.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If this kind of ultra-long-range forecasting sounds improbable, the U.S. government says it's impossible.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "In the opinion of most scientists in the field, you cannot say anything about individual daily weather more than about a week out," said Mike Halpert, of the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Prediction Center at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Prognosticators contend that the government's not looking in the right places.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some of them say the secrets of the weather can be traced in cycles of sunspots -- dark spots on the sun related to 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in magnetic activity. The idea is that shifts in the sun's energy eventually affect the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on Earth. Another school studies the movements of the tides, believing that they signal 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the weather in roughly 18-year cycles.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Others look closer to home.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This year, I find . . . the squirrels are not shaking the nuts out of the trees," said Gerald S. Lestz, 94, editor of Baer's Agricultural Almanac & Gardener's Guide in Lancaster, Pa.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Lestz said he also noticed that wasps were building their nests relatively close to the ground, perhaps indicating that snow would not pile up too high.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This winter "looks a little on the mild side," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Almanac staff members say their predictions are trusted by the public, often consulted by brides-to-be, members of the clergy, horse racing promoters and other people who want to know if the rain will fall on a special day that might be months or years off.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 They contend that they're correct more often than not.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Hagerstown, the weather isn't even the most astounding thing the $3.50 almanac predicts: it boasts a formula to identify the sex of an unborn child, using the birthday and Zodiac sign of an older sibling.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I've never, ever had anybody tell me I was wrong" about that, said Jerry Spessard, almanac's business manager. About half of the booklet's customers, he said, live in the Washington area.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But for prognosticators, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a problem on a much bigger scale. It threatens the very bedrock of their craft -- the idea that nature is repeating itself.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Scientists around the world have concluded that average temperatures could rise 3 degrees or more by 2100, as mounting levels of carbon dioxide and pollutants trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere. That 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is expected to raise sea levels, alter long-established weather patterns and affect plant and animal life.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Hagerstown, O'Toole said he realized that the old ways had to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . In recent years, he has revised the way he uses the old chart of the moon's phases, predicting that summer conditions will come earlier and stay longer.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I forecast less snow. I forecast the first snow later in the year and the last snow earlier in the year," said O'Toole, a retired math and computer science professor from Mount St. Mary's University in Emmitsburg, Md.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 O'Toole, a man used to slow 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , has become alarmed, and he urges people to do their part to stop 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For O'Toole, the arrival of Tropical Storm Hanna on Saturday was just the latest evidence of the 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . His forecasting methods, based on centuries-old charts keyed to the phases of the moon, predicted storms this month. But they didn't foresee anything like Hanna, which dropped seven inches of rain in some spots in Northern Virginia. His forecast had been "fair, cooler."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I was surprised at the intensity," O'Toole said. He said it was part of a new pattern: "Storms will become more numerous and stronger; that will be the general trend."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But other prognosticators haven't gone as far in accepting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Our formula basically is about 200 years old, and it's worked pretty well for us," said Sandi Duncan, managing editor of the almanac in Maine.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Duncan said the almanac prognosticator's formula is a secret, even to her. The aim is to prevent people from saving the $5.99 and forecasting the weather on their own. But she said the prognosticator, known only by the pseudonym "Caleb Weatherbee," had not considered 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a major factor in the forecast.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It hasn't really played that much of a curve into our weather picture," said Duncan, whose almanac, like the one in New Hampshire, is calling for a cold winter.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the almanac in Lancaster, Lestz said he had seen signs that temperatures are warming, but "we're going to give . . . 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a little more time to get organized." He said he would include it in his forecasts as a minor factor.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "On a scale of one to 10, three," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What about the wasps and squirrels?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They're nine and 10," Lestz said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs28 Graphic
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 IMAGE; By Ricky Carioti -- The Washington Post; This Washington area almanac takes 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  into account in its weather forecasts; others don't.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE; By Ricky Carioti -- The Washington Post; Jerry Spessard, left, and Bill O'Toole talk about the art of weather forecasting at the almanac in Hagerstown, Md.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 10, 2008
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can Wall Street save us from climate change?
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 20, 2020 Monday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0855 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Robert J. Samuelson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has come to Wall Street in the guise of Larry Fink. For those who don't know, Fink runs BlackRock, a $7 trillion collection of investment funds consisting of stocks, bonds and other securities. Fink is a global opinionmaker, and he believes that worldwide 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is driving 'a fundamental reshaping of finance.' This is, or could be, a big deal.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 It's tempting to cast this as a collision between capitalists and environmentalists " and the environmentalists win. They take charge of the nation's investment flows, which are redirected toward various green technologies. These, in turn, rescue us from the baleful effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sounds exciting and consequential.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be what Fink has in mind, which is more tedious and less momentous.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 '
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risk is investment risk,' he writes in his annual letter to other CEOs, the heads of firms in which BlackRock invests. Companies need to take advantage of the opportunities and protect themselves against the threats. Those that do will flourish; those that don't will falter. Profitability and performance will suffer.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What kinds of 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  does Fink expect? He writes:
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Will cities . . . be able to afford their infrastructure needs as 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risk reshapes the market for municipal bonds? What will happen to the 30-year mortgage " a key building block of finance " if lenders can't estimate the impact of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risk over such a long timeline?'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As huge investors, poor performance hurts BlackRock and the big and little private investors who commit their savings to its funds. The solution, Fink argues, is for companies to publicize more information (that is, 'disclosure') by which outsiders, including firms such as BlackRock, can better judge their performance.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The underlying goal is improved profitability. This is not exactly revolutionary. Without 'robust disclosures, investors, including BlackRock, will increasingly conclude that companies are not adequately managing risk,' he says.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Poor performance must have consequences, Fink contends. Last year, BlackRock did not support management-backed directors at 2,700-companies as a way of registering its disapproval with firms. The punishments could get harsher. If companies don't improve, 'we will be increasingly disposed to vote against management and board directors,' he writes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Viewed through the prism of profits, Fink's ideas are well within Wall Street's traditions. Details may differ, but the central purpose of boosting profits hasn't.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To be sure, none of this precludes the possibility that companies may make significant advances involving 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  " whether to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or to improve energy efficiency. But there are two overriding realities to keep in mind when discussing the prospects for Fink's framework.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 First " and foremost " combating global warming is mainly a governmental problem and can't conceivably be accomplished without acknowledging that. Private firms, whether electric utilities or vehicle manufacturers, may be the instruments to attack 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but they will respond to the policies and incentives created by the political  process.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The trouble, of course, is that the policies that would mobilize the private sector against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are highly unpopular for obvious reasons. One approach involves very high taxes on fossil fuels, the source of most greenhouse gases. This would presumably push consumers toward electric cars, and solar and wind power.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 People want to be known as ethical investors. So BlackRock is devising new investment portfolios that advertise 'values.' Coal companies are being eliminated, for example. This is more about marketing than energy policy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The political reality is that, although many Americans say they oppose global warming, the buying public prefers SUVs and lower electricity bills to smaller cars and higher bills. As a result, federal anti-
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  laws are virtually nonexistent. In theory, capitalists and environmentalists should get along. In practice, both are frustrated by popular opinion.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Second, the forecasting that Fink advocates as a way for companies to anticipate the future is highly desirable " but almost impossible to achieve in the real world. We know too little about too many things. Knowledge is too specialized for most of us to acquire much of it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The difficulties are not just limited to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Dozens of major issues qualify. Some examples: China's rise as an economic and military superpower; the Internet's expansion into dubious and antisocial activities (examples: loss of privacy, the hacking of cybersystems); the aging of populations in virtually all advanced societies. Excepting aging, none of these upheavals was genuinely foreseen.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Still, Fink has done us a favor. On 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , he's reminded us that little can be done until " and unless " there is a political settlement that encourages a shift away from fossil fuels. The necessary groundwork involves public persuasion. If that fails or simply isn't tried, because it's too controversial, then all the rest is sound and fury, signifying nothing.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 20, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 More Americans are alarmed about climate change, polls say
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 24, 2019 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A20
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0711 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 A pair of polls published Tuesday found broad recognition among Americans that the world is getting warmer after they endured a year of intense wildfires and devastating hurricanes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Taken together, both polls - one from researchers at Yale and George Mason universities and the other from those at the University of Chicago and the Associated Press - depict citizens who increasingly see the conspicuous effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  around them and take the issue more personally than ever.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 An overwhelming majority of the U.S. public - more than 7 in 10 American adults -acknowledge that the world is getting warmer, according to the two surveys, which were both conducted late last year and published independently on Tuesday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It was a completely crazy fluke that they came out today," said Sam Ori, executive director of the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, which participated in one of the surveys.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The percentage of Americans who say the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has steadily increased since 2015, the Yale-George Mason team has found. But it is the number of Americans who say the issue is personally important to them that spiked sharply last year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A record-high total of 72 percent of U.S. adults polled between Nov. 28 and Dec. 11 by the Yale and George Mason team regard 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as personally important - up 16 percentage points since March 2015 and 9 points since March 2018. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I think we're witnessing a sea 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in public understanding of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," said Ed Maibach, director of George Mason's Center for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Communication.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  may be happening because Americans increasingly see 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as affecting them (49 percent) or their families (56 percent) or their countrymen (65 percent).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There are at least three broad factors that may be behind that recent uptick, Maibach said. One is the alarm bells recently rung by top scientists working for the U.S. government and United Nations. Major scientific reports from them indicate that the damage from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is intensifying across the country and that the world has little more than a decade to curb 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -altering emissions and hold warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another possible factor: Efforts made by President Trump's administration to undo steps to reduce greenhouse gas pollution - the chief factor in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  according to scientists. The unraveling of such regulations runs counter to those scientific findings but may be raising awareness of the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A third, and perhaps most important, reason is the spate of nasty weather events in recent years, which include the sort of massive wildfires in the Western United States and intense hurricanes in the Atlantic that many 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists expect to become more common in a warming world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "2018 was the year from hell in terms of extreme weather events and the number of Americans harmed by them," Maibach said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Lending credence to that notion is the other poll, from the University of Chicago and the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Among the respondents to that survey who said they found the science of man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  more convincing than they did five years ago, three-quarters said recent hurricanes, floods, droughts and unusual heat influenced their views.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The biggest driver by a wide margin is the extreme weather over the last several months," Ori said. "The wildfires in California were actually ongoing during the period when the poll was taken," in mid-November.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But that survey, like others, identified the typical cleavages on the issue along party lines that historically have made passing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation difficult. Eighty-six percent of self-identified Democrats said they recognize 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is happening, compared with 70 percent of independents and 52 percent of Republicans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That greater concern about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  identified in both surveys is a return to the past. In November 2008, when Barack Obama was first elected to the White House, 70 percent of Americans said the issue of global warming was personally important to them.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was only when Democrats tried to pass cap-and-trade legislation aimed at addressing greenhouse gas emissions that the concern plummeted by 14 points by 2010.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 24, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate change is fueling disasters, report says
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 1, 2017 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0876 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Ben Guarino;Brady Dennis
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  significantly imperils public health globally, according to a new report that chronicles the many hazards and symptoms already being seen. The authors describe its manifestations as "unequivocal and potentially irreversible."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Heat waves are striking more people, disease-carrying mosquitoes are spreading and weather disasters are becoming more common, the authors note in the report published Monday by the British medical journal the Lancet. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a "threat multiplier," they write, and its blows hit hardest in the most vulnerable communities, where people are suffering from poverty, water scarcity, inadequate housing or other crises.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 "We've been quite shocked and surprised by some of the results," said Nick Watts, a fellow at University College London's Institute for Global Health and executive director of the Lancet Countdown, a project aimed at examining the links between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and public health.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The effort involved 63 researchers from two dozen institutions worldwide, including 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists as well as ecologists, geographers, economists, engineers, mathematicians, political scientists and experts who study food, transportation and energy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is the latest in several Lancet reports to focus on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . In 2009, a Lancet commission described 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as "the biggest global health threat of the 21st century." In 2015, a second commission recognized that the innovations required to match this threat represented "the greatest global health opportunity of the 21st century."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Countdown, as its ticking-clock title suggests, outlines the way humans are adapting - or not - to a rapidly evolving 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It was announced last year during the United Nations 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Conference in Morocco. The project, a synthesis of scientific literature and media reports, tracks 40 indicators of human health, including migration, nutrition and air pollution.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Given the profound health dangers posed by a warming 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the study's authors focused on a key question: How well is the world responding?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The answer is, most of our indicators are headed in the wrong direction," Watts said. "Broadly, the world has not responded to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and that lack of response has put lives at risk. . . . The impacts we're experiencing today are already pretty bad. The things we're talking about in the future are potentially catastrophic."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Higher global temperatures are exacting a human toll. Although the increase since 2000 may seem slight - about 0.75 degrees Fahrenheit - the planet is not a uniform oven. Local spikes can be dramatic and dangerous. Heat waves, defined as extreme temperatures that persist for at least three days, are on the rise.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Between 2000 and 2016, the number of people exposed to heat waves climbed by 125 million vulnerable adults, according to the report. During 2015, the worst year on record, 175 million people suffered through sweltering temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Watts also cited the rising number of deaths from floods, storms and other weather disasters. Each year between 2007 and 2016, the world saw an average of 300 weather disasters - a 46 percent increase from the decade between 1990 and 1999. In the 25 years since 1990, these disasters claimed more than 500,000 lives.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The number of potentially infectious bites from the  Aedes aegypti  mosquito, which spreads viruses such as dengue fever and Zika, is up 9 percent over 1950s levels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And in recent years, the ranks of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  migrants have grown. Just in the United States, more than 3,500 Alaskans have fled coastal erosion and permafrost melts. Twenty-five homes have been abandoned on Louisiana's Isle de Jean Charles, which is being overtaken by the Gulf of Mexico. In 2016, its former residents became the first to receive federal funds for a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  retreat.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If governments and the global health community do not learn from the past experiences of HIV/AIDS and the recent outbreaks of Ebola and Zika viruses," the authors warn in the paper, "another slow response will result in an irreversible and unacceptable cost to human health."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Monday's report also finds "glimmers of hope," Watts said. For example, many countries are moving away from coal-fired power plants, which are a source both of carbon emissions that fuel global warming and pollution that can cause immediate health problems in nearby communities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 After President Trump's announcement in June that the United States would pull out of the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord, the global response to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has been heartening, the authors write, "affirming clear political will and ambition to reach the treaty's targets." Nicaragua, previously a holdout because it said the treaty was not stringent enough, is set to join the Paris agreement, leaving only Syria and the United States opposed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Watts and his co-authors note the ways people are trying to cope with the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - spending less time outdoors, for example - even as they warn that the world cannot rely on adaptation alone. "If anybody says we can adapt our way out of this, the answer is, of course you can't," he said. "Some of the 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  we're talking about are so enormous, you can't adapt your way out."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ben.guarino@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 1, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 EPA shifts on cost of climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 October 12, 2017 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A13
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01144 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on Tuesday released a detailed 198-page proposed analysis of the costs and benefits of its move to repeal the Clean Power Plan, suggesting that the administration plans to greatly decrease the government's estimates of the cost of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The document explains the consequences of scrapping the Clean Power Plan, a set of rules for power plants aimed at reducing U.S. contributions to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . In the document, the EPA calculated the cost of one ton of emissions of carbon dioxide, a major greenhouse gas, to be between $1 and $6 in the year 2020.  That's down from the Obama administration's central (inflation adjusted) 2020 estimate of $45 - "a reduction of 87 percent to 97 percent," according to a comparison by the think tank Resources for the Future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The wildly divergent numbers arise in significant part because the agency is now calculating the cost of carbon only within the United States, rather than around the globe - a key 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that could be of major consequence.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The "social cost of carbon" is a very influential figure that helps policymakers weigh the value of moves aimed at stopping 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . If the social cost of carbon is lower, that shrinks the estimated benefits of such moves, making it more likely policymakers will find those benefits not worth the costs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The most important single economic concept in the economics of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is the social cost of carbon (SCC). At present, regulations with more than $1 trillion of benefits have been written for the United States that use the SCC in their economic analysis," Yale University economist William Nordhaus wrote in a 2016 study.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Similar analyses could show up in other Trump administration regulatory decisions, experts said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Critics say that in its "Regulatory Impact Analysis," the Trump administration is manipulating the math to justify predetermined conclusions. The EPA analysis is "a radical departure from established science and economics," charged attorney David Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "My read is that the political decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan was made and then they did whatever was necessary to make the numbers work," added Michael Greenstone, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago who worked on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy during the Obama years.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These critics were responding to a prior leaked draft that summarized the longer impact analysis, but the new version seemed largely consistent with it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The EPA defended the approach Tuesday, arguing that it was the Obama administration that had done the math in a questionable way. "The facts are that the Obama administration's estimates and analysis of costs and benefits was, in multiple areas, highly uncertain and/or controversial," said an agency spokesman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the individual was not authorized to speak on the record. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The previous administration compared domestic costs against its estimate of global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  benefits," the spokesman continued. "The proposed repeal also presents a scenario looking specifically at domestic 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts. EPA is tasked with protecting the environment and human health of this nation, and our alternative analysis reflects that. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This administration also returns to long-standing OMB [Office of Management and Budget] practice by using appropriate discount rates to compare apples to apples when estimating the current value of future scenarios."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new EPA document is a proposal, rather than a final analysis. It presents a variety of scenarios and assumptions, broadly explaining the uncertainties involved in such complex calculations and citing the need for "transparency" in its analysis. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Still, critics say the way the analyses are built involves a considerable departure from past practices for calculating the cost and benefits of dealing with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The EPA's 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - which could become central to ongoing litigation over how the agency addresses 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - reflect a long, complicated debate over how the government justifies regulatory decisions, particularly with respect to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2009, the Obama administration created the Interagency Working Group on the Social Cost of Carbon, a panel designed to assess the economic damages from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The body used a complex brew of economic and scientific analyses to figure out the toll, in dollar terms, of a ton of carbon dioxide emitted to the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That estimate - which varies based on a variety of assumptions but was recently put at $45 dollars (adjusted for inflation) in 2020 in one central scenario - then fed into regulatory analyses that helped President Barack Obama's EPA conclude that the benefits of the Clean Power Plan would greatly exceed its costs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The EPA's approach has long been the target of conservative critics, and shortly after President Trump's election, the new administration moved to reverse it. In a March executive order, Trump disbanded the working group and said its reports and findings "shall be withdrawn as no longer representative of governmental policy."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Now, the EPA appears to have begun to unveil a different way of calculating the social cost of carbon and other aspects of its cost-benefit calculations related to pollution - one that could have sweeping implications.   
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Where Obama's EPA said it considered the cost of a ton of carbon dioxide emissions across the entire globe, the EPA of Administrator Scott Pruitt said it will shift "the focus to the domestic (rather than global) social cost of carbon." Damages within the United States from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will naturally be smaller - making it harder to justify cutting emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Critics say this approach ignores that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a global problem and that emissions from other countries hurt us, just as our emissions hurt them. "The new proposal claims to count only the domestic U.S. impacts of carbon pollution, even though this pollution causes worldwide harm," charged the Environmental Defense Fund in a recent rebuttal to the EPA's analysis.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The National Academy of Sciences, in its latest report evaluating the social cost of carbon methodology, found that the calculation isn't as simple as stopping at U.S. borders. "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in other regions of the world could affect the United States through such pathways as global migration, economic destabilization, and political destabilization," it noted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The Academy finding was that you can't just do some simple percentage of global damages to get at an estimate of the U.S. damages; you have to take into account how damages incurred outside the U.S. feed back into the U.S.," said Rutgers 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist Robert Kopp, one of the members of the committee who drafted the report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 christopher.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 \'ef\'85\'8c More at washingtonpost.com/news/ energy-environment 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0October 12, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 It's not too late to stem climate change. But there's no more time to waste.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 28, 2019 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01348 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Meara Sharma
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 There's a Hasidic story I often think of in relation to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It describes how, in the world to come, "everything will be as it is now, just a little different." It's tempting to take comfort in the idea that although things are a little different - fires burning harder, floods reaching deeper, seasons bleeding over - they are also, mostly, the same. In the grand scheme of life, incremental variations seem to dissolve into the norm. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The problem is, as author and environmentalist Bill McKibben wrote 30 years ago, this is a grand delusion. His book "The End of Nature" - among the first to alert the public to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - tried to dispel the persistent notion that time is lumberingly vast, that the future will be "just a little different." Scale the Earth's billions of years of life to a 24-hour day, and human civilization represents about one-fifth of a second. And yet, we've managed to fundamentally remake the planet. "The End of Nature" was a brooding tangle of science and philosophy, lamenting the loss of something sacred: that nature is a force independent from use, greater than us. Not anymore, McKibben argued - we'd put our fingers all over it. We were "decreating" nature, and in so doing, stripping our lives of meaning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Since then, McKibben has become one of the nation's foremost environmental chroniclers, founded the grass-roots 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  movement 350.org  and seen nearly all his worst fears about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  come true. So his latest book, "Falter: Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out?," wastes no time. It's a direct, attention-grabbing sprint through what we've done to the planet and ourselves, why we haven't stopped it and what we can do about it. Determined to keep the words "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " from fading into our "mental furniture," he has gathered the most vivid statistics, distilled history to its juiciest turns, and made the case as urgently and clearly as can be: The whole breadth of our existence - the "human game" - is in jeopardy.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  "should fill us with awe; it's by far the biggest thing humans have done," he writes, and the book evinces that. The heat we've trapped equals four Hiroshima-size bombs dropped every second. We've sparked fires that, according to an Australian researcher, "cannot be controlled by any suppression resources that we have available anywhere in the world." Seas will rise several meters in the next 50 to 150 years, rendering coastal cities "practically ungovernable." Reading this accrual of effects is like stepping back from a painting's abstract swirl and seeing a fully formed world. As a California fire victim said, "No one will be spared." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 After instilling sufficient terror, McKibben cycles briskly through the intersecting forces that lie behind decades of inaction. Among them: Exxon's deliberate efforts to mislead the public about fossil fuel emissions, and Ayn Rand's pervasive influence on the most powerful people of the past several decades, including President Ronald Reagan and the Koch brothers. Randian ideology, which McKibben sums up as "Government is bad. Selfishness is good. . . .  You're not the boss of me ." precludes the possibility of tackling 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , because that would require the government to flex its strength. In the words of a Koch-funded economist: "The best policy regarding global warming is to neglect it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Then, the book takes a sharp turn toward other threats to the human game: artificial intelligence with the power to usurp us, and gene editing to customize our offspring. "When we engineer and design, we turn people into a form of technology, and obsolescence is an utterly predictable feature of every technology we've ever seen," McKibben warns. His engagement with these technologies is somewhat panicky; indeed, their risks are so obvious that a regulation debate is emerging alongside them. But there's a twisted poetry to the concept that rather than safeguarding our future, we're pursuing innovations that will hasten our demise. Meanwhile, where 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and artificial intelligence and gene editing converge is inequality - all three will exacerbate it, rendering most of us increasingly vulnerable and ill-equipped to cope. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A recent New Yorker cartoon depicts an interviewer asking his guest, "And finally, where do you see yourself in five years?" In a thought bubble, the interviewee imagines himself paddling through a flooded Manhattan on a scrap of wood, the Empire State Building peeking up above the waterline. It's grimly funny, but it also seems to capture a new kind of resignation. Among the environmentally aware, a sense of engagement - even if driven by frustration, not optimism - seems to be shifting toward cynical despair. The numbers only stoke this: The International Energy Agency reported a record high for global greenhouse gas emissions in 2018, with energy efficiency increasingly ignored. The "we're doomed, the end" mind-set even touches purported solutions. McKibben describes Oxford bioethicist Julian Savulescu's depressingly absurd conclusion that humans are too morally stunted to fix 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . So: "The only way to solve global warming before it destroys our planet is to genetically alter human beings so that they become more altruistic and willing to make more sacrifice for the common good."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 McKibben has no patience for this. "Knowing cynicism is no threat to the Exxons of the world - it's a gift," he writes. Having harnessed "usefully naive outrage" to help divest trillions of dollars from fossil fuels, he believes we're not "grossly defective," but rather, "capable of acting together to do remarkable things." So in the final, and most illuminating, section of "Falter," he narrows those remarkable things down to two elements.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The first is the solar panel - a "technology of  repair " to heal the atmosphere and mitigate inequality heightened by profit-hungry energy companies. McKibben visits social entrepreneurs in rural Africa who are leapfrogging communities from powerlessness to solar, reportage that feels a bit too credulous for such a sober book. You can't help but cringe at the imbalance - village grids against the Koch brothers' billions? To replace fossil fuels, the United States would have to build about a dozen wind and solar plants per state, which sounds daunting. But such mobilization has happened before, McKibben says: During World War II, bombers, tanks, guns, cannons and engines were cranked out from factories nationwide in mere months. "If . . . we did something like that again, in the name of stopping 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  instead of fascism," he writes, "we wouldn't have to kill a soul." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 McKibben's second tool is nonviolence. "If we are to build the political will to deploy renewable energy fast enough, we'll need a bulldozer for reshaping the zeitgeist. That's the job of movements." Cue the cynics, but again, he reminds us that we've done it before: In 1970, a 10th of the population demonstrated against smog-choked cities and burning rivers, forcing President Richard Nixon to act. And today, millions of students striking against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and proposals such as the Green New Deal - a comprehensive plan to reorient the economy around clean energy - are bold indications that we aren't done yet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Despite the book's bleakness, its most stirring takeaway is perhaps McKibben's soulful insistence that choices remain. We are the only creatures, he asserts, who can impose limits on themselves. "We can wreck the Earth as we've known it, killing vast numbers of ourselves and wiping out entire swaths of other life. . . . But we can also  not do that."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It recalls a fable frequently invoked to explain inaction on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Drop a frog into a pot of boiling water, and it will immediately hop out. But place it in slowly warming water, and it will be cooked to death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 However, this is a myth. The frog would actually jump out and save itself. Maybe we can, too. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Meara Sharma  writes about culture and the environment.  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Falter
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out?
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 By Bill McKibben
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Henry Holt. 291 pp. $28
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 28, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Trump can't do much to worsen climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 2, 2017 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01833 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Ben Adler
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Even if U.S. emissions rise, other nations are preparing to make up for it, says journalist
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Few of President Barack Obama's achievements seem more imperiled by President Trump than progress in combating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . To avert catastrophe, the broadly accepted goal among 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists is to stay below two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) of warming over preindustrial temperatures. By helping negotiate the 2015 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement in Paris and setting up a regulatory framework for fossil fuel emissions domestically, Obama created conditions that are necessary, but insufficient, to get there.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The hope was that his successor would go further by increasing the ambition of Obama's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  rules, cracking down on methane leakage and completing the reform of fossil fuel leasing on public land that the Interior Department had just begun. Now that's all off the table, and Trump is planning to eliminate every environmental regulation he can. This past week, he began by issuing executive orders to repeal the Clean Power Plan, which would have regulated carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants, and to lift the moratorium on coal leasing on public land. He'll also review - and possibly strike - regulations on methane emissions and Obama's order to factor the costs of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  into regulatory decisions, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But that doesn't guarantee a future with Manhattan and New Orleans underwater. Global warming is a global problem. The rest of the world can, and looks increasingly likely to, compensate for American backsliding. "Trump can throw up roadblocks to progress and he can undermine the progress we've already made. But he can't prevent us from being successful," says Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. In the battle against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the United States is no longer the lone superpower.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump will certainly make it harder to stay below 2C. He is a flamboyant 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science denier, even for a Republican. He tweets  that cold winter weather in New York proves that there is no global warming, and he promised during his campaign that he would drop Obama's biggest 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies: the nation's role in the Paris agreement and the Clean Power Plan, which would limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants. His budget request eviscerates environmental spending, eliminating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  programs entirely. Boosting fossil-fuel extraction was a staple of Trump's stump speeches. He repeatedly swore that he would approve every oil and gas pipeline, as he already has done with the Keystone XL. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt recently removed the Obama administration's new reporting requirement for methane leakage in oil and gas drilling operations.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump's strongest affection was for coal, for which he repeatedly professed his "love." He implausibly promised to revive the dying industry, saying he would revoke every environmental regulation that harmed coal, not just those explicitly limiting carbon emissions. In February, he signed a Congressional Review Act bill repealing the EPA's Stream Protection Rule, which would have required coal companies to clean up waste from mountaintop removal mining and stop dumping it in waterways. He also ordered the EPA to rescind or dial back its Clean Power Plan and lifted the Interior Department's moratorium on coal leasing on public land. He may lift EPA restrictions on conventional pollutants from coal such as mercury and smog. Potentially even more damaging is his incipient rollback of the EPA's Clean Car Rules. To the extent that Trump weakens the average fuel efficiency requirements for 2022 to 2025 models, he will directly increase emissions. The United States is responsible for just 14.4 percent of global emissions each year, and that share is dropping. But before many of these and other protections were in place, it had accounted for 27 percent of cumulative historical emissions, resulting in about 0.45C of warming that already has occurred or will soon.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet for true global ruination, many other nations would need to abnegate their moral obligation to protect the planet. The president alone can't rewrite laws such as the Clean Air Act and, more important, the  U.S. government is hardly the only center of power in the fight against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The signs from those other actors, be it the national government of China or Democratic governors in the United States, are encouraging. And even the domestic path to unwinding progress is strewn with obstacles. "Even if the person is sitting in the Oval Office, no single person can stop 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and no single person can kill the effort to stop 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," Brune says.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump's greatest threat to the global battle against  warming is his attitude toward the Paris agreement, which he will not push the Senate to ratify or industry to work toward. Without further domestic 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action, the United States was already at risk of not meeting its emissions targets under Paris. If Trump's policies ensure that we miss those targets, it will undermine international faith in the U.N. Framework Convention on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  process, of which the Paris agreement is a part. Even worse, Trump will still be president when global leaders reconvene in 2020 to ratchet up the ambition of their emissions pledges for the 2025 to 2030 period. We can safely assume the United States won't play the constructive diplomatic role that it did last time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But those meetings will take place in November or December of 2020, after the next presidential election. If a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  hawk has just been elected president, other countries will know that the United States' real intentions over the following four years can't be gauged solely by Trump's posture. And as the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , from drought to sea-level rise, become tangible for large countries, their willingness to plow ahead without U.S. leadership will increase.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "For many countries, taking action is not because of the U.S. It's in their own interest," says David Waskow, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  director at the World Resources Institute, an international environmental policy research organization. Even now, no other country has said it will back out of the Paris agreement, and the European Union pledged to fill the diplomatic void left by Washington. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 China is far and away the most important global player on this subject. Already, it is the world's biggest greenhouse-gas emitter, responsible for 27 percent of current annual emissions and 0.17C of the 1.5C 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  already guaranteed. Based on its enormous population and rapid economic growth, those numbers could rise precipitously. But instead - after decades of rapid growth - China's emissions have been stable or slightly reduced for the past three years, and it projects a drop of 1 percent in 2017. China is switching to clean energy, and its shift away from coal is contributing to a global slowdown in emissions. Over the past three years, even as the world economy has grown, emissions have stayed flat. China is on track to fulfill its promise from Paris to peak its carbon emissions by 2030, ahead of schedule. In fact, according to experts on Chinese environmental policy, it may have peaked already. In January, Beijing announced that it will invest at least $360 billion in deploying renewable energy such as wind and solar power from now through 2020. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 India, like China, suffers from severe smog in its major cities, and it is following suit. It has set ambitious goals for solar energy generation and is investing heavily in related infrastructure upgrades. Globally, new coal capacity was down 62 percent last year over 2015. China and India also are beginning to tackle transportation emissions, as they significantly expand their train and subway networks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What's more, it's unclear whether Trump will be able to make much domestic progress on his rollback anyway. First, the law is not on his side. Trump does not want to regulate carbon or other fossil-fuel-related pollutants under the Clean Air Act, but the statute and the Supreme Court say that he must. As Trump repeals the Clean Power Plan and updated limits on mercury, coal ash and smog, he will face legal challenges that he may well lose. And then a future administration can pick up where Obama left off.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "After the [George W.] Bush administration, which unfortunately lasted eight years, the Clean Air Act was still in effect and the Obama administration started to set things right," says David Doniger, director of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  program at the Natural Resources Defense Council and a former EPA official. "It's not a very satisfying thing to think of this as a 30-years war, but it's longer than a four-year battle." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Second, even if Trump implements his preferred policies, he cannot reverse coal's decline (although perhaps he can slow it down). The energy sector is transitioning from coal to natural gas and renewables because their prices are dropping. Meanwhile, coal is slowly dying: The most easily accessible coal veins already have been tapped. Utilities are aware that coal's regulatory noose will tighten again. "Anyone who is making an investment in a new power plant is looking to the future and saying, 'This Trumpian timeout is not going to last. We need to plan for a future in which there are carbon pollution limits and we should anticipate that,' " Doniger says. In 2016, solar energy was the largest new source of domestic energy development. It is poised to grow even more rapidly in the years ahead.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Finally, the president is not the only domestic authority that matters for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Some of the largest states, such as New York and California, are still moving to cut their emissions and transition to clean energy. It's an odd fact of our federal system that energy utilities are largely regulated at the state level. Legislatures can require them to hit benchmarks for renewable energy, as many have. In the wake of Trump's election, blue state governments from Oregon to New York are looking to ramp up their 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action. (As California Gov. Jerry Brown memorably said after the election, his state "will launch its own damn satellite" if Trump cuts back on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  research.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Other important sectors - including energy-efficient building codes and transportation policy - are managed mainly at the state and local levels as well. Environmental activists have been pressing on these levers, and they are shifting resources toward that instead of wasting them in Washington. The Sierra Club, for example, has more than 170 employees working on grass-roots, locally focused clean energy activism through programs such as Beyond Coal, which pressures utilities to shut down coal plants and forgo building new ones.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump's election dealt global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  progress a major setback, and that will be all the more true if he wins reelection in 2020. The narrow path to staying below 2C has become narrower still. But hope for the saving the Earth is not lost. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Twitter: @badler 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 2, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 House Democrats focus on climate change with at least 15 hearings in 2 months
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 8, 2019 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A18
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0722 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 There's been one on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and infrastructure. Another on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and publicly owned lands. And there have been two on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and oceans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Now that they have control of the House, Democrats have used their newfound power to pack the calendar in Congress with hearings on what they see as the biggest environmental crisis facing the nation and the world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the first 64 days of the new Congress, various congressional committees have scheduled at least 15 hearings explicitly on the causes and effects of - and potential response to - the world's warming 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Democrats want to elevate an issue that they say House Republicans almost entirely ignored during their eight years in power in the chamber.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Today's hearing on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is long overdue," House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-N.J.) said during his panel's first hearing in the new Congress in early February. "We are feeling its effects now, and the influence of unchecked 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is becoming more obvious every year."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Democrats sought to cast February as the month in which they would put a focus on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , though the hearings are stretching into March. Most of the time, the meetings were not convened to discuss any particular piece of legislation. They also didn't tackle the nonbinding Green New Deal resolution that has captured the attention of Washington.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 They served instead as an opportunity for members to gather testimony from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  experts - and to stump about the urgency needed to address global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One hearing in the House Natural Resources Committee sought to examine how 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -fueled floods and wildfires are disrupting Native American communities. Another in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee looked at how emissions from cars, airplanes and other modes of transportation makes global warming worse.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Showing how deep into the weeds Democrats want to dive, the most recent of those 15 hearings, in the Energy and Commerce Committee on Thursday, focused on rules that would increase the energy efficiency of lightbulbs and other devices.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And Democrats are far from done. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi reinstituted a special select committee on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that was disbanded by Republicans when they were in the majority. It has yet to meet, but that panel, chaired by Rep. Kathy Castor (D-Fla.), will collect facts about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  from scientists and experts rather than focus on crafting legislation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We're facing the crisis of our generation," Castor said at one of the other several 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  hearings on the Hill in February. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Even one Republican chairwoman on the side of the Capitol still controlled by the GOP - Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska - has joined in the hearing frenzy, convening one this week on advancing new technologies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the electricity sector.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Like much of the rest of the Arctic, her state has warmed twice as fast as the Lower 48 states, a fact she noted during her opening remarks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This has got to be a priority for all of us," Murkowski said. "Certainly in Alaska we view that there is no choice here."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During their eight years in power in the House, Republicans largely declined to directly shine a spotlight on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Energy and Commerce Committee Republicans say the committee addressed 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the last GOP-led Congress through hearings focused on boosting renewable and nuclear energy and promoting energy efficiency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But on other committees, Republicans often criticized 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists themselves - as then-House Science Committee Chair Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) did when he probed a group of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration researchers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But some top GOP lawmakers are responding to the new political reality in Washington by calling for action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - as long as it is bipartisan.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At times, their remarks even got personal.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rep. Greg Walden, the ranking Republican on the Energy and Commerce panel, held up a jar of ash during one hearing to illustrate the devastation of wildfires in his eastern Oregon district. And the new top Republican on the science panel, Rep. Frank D. Lucas (R-Okla.), cited his experience as a farmer during another hearing as he called for more investment in carbon capture and nuclear energy technologies.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 8, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 New Groups Revive the Debate Over Causes of Climate Change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 25, 2009 Friday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A18
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0946 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f3\fs20 Washington Post Staff Writer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.) may be grappling with health care, but in Montana a new advocacy group opposed to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation called C02 Is Green is taking aim at the next big battle for Congress.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The group is already running television ads: "This will cost us jobs," one says. "There is no scientific evidence that CO2 is a pollutant. In fact higher CO2 levels than we have today would help the Earth's ecosystems." It urges voters to contact Baucus, who in the past has backed bills to cap emissions and allow companies to trade pollution allowances.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The man behind the latest entry to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation wars is H. Leighton Steward, a veteran oil industry executive, co-author of the "Sugar Busters!" dieting books, and winner of an Environmental Protection Agency award for a report on damage being done to Mississippi wetlands. Now retired, he says he wants to "get the message out there" that carbon dioxide, which the Supreme Court has ruled a pollutant and which most scientists regard as a dangerous greenhouse gas, "is a net benefit for the planet."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Steward has joined forces with Corbin J. Robertson Jr., chief executive of and leading shareholder in Natural Resource Partners, a Houston-based owner of coal resources that lets other companies mine in return for royalties. Its revenues were $291 million in 2008. They have formed two groups -- CO2 Is Green designated for advocacy and Plants Need CO2 for education -- with about $1 million. Plants Need CO2 has applied for 501(c)(3) tax status, so that contributions would qualify as charitable donations, said Natural Resource Partners general counsel Wyatt L. Hogan, who also serves on the group's board.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Fractious Debate 
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The new groups join an increasingly fractious debate over 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation that has roiled corporate and environmental groups alike. Earlier this month, Duke Energy, Alcoa and Alstom all pulled out of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an industry group whose ads have asserted that the House 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill would make energy unaffordable. "We thought [the bill] had evolved in ways to be affordable for our customers," said Duke spokesman Tom Williams.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This week, a group of large corporations -- including New Mexico utility PNM Resources, California utility PG&E, power generator Exelon and Nike -- denounced the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's opposition to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 PNM said it would let its membership in the Chamber lapse at the end of the year. "At PNM Resources, we see 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as the most pressing environmental and economic issue of our time," the company said in a statement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Earlier in the week, PNM took aim at a Chamber official who had suggested holding a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  trial like the 1925 Scopes "monkey" trial over evolution. "We strongly disagree with the chamber's position on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation and particularly reject its recent theatrics calling for a 'Scopes Monkey Trial' to put the science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on trial," said the company, whose chief executive, Jeff Sterba, is a former Chamber board member. "We believe the science is compelling enough to act sooner rather than later."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The head of the Chamber, Thomas J. Donohue, said earlier this week that the group opposed the EPA's potentially far-reaching regulatory power over CO2, but asserted that "we have not ruled out all cap-and-trade systems or a carbon tax."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Exelon, which has paid as much as $100,000 in dues to the Chamber, said Thursday it also objected to the group's participation in town hall meetings organized to oppose the House's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They have asked us to increase our presence or contribution for years," said Elizabeth A. Moler, Exelon's executive vice president for government and public policy. "We have never done that because of the position they have taken in opposition to competitive electricity markets and particularly wouldn't increase our contribution in light of what they're doing on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The town hall meetings were organized over the summer by Energy Citizens, a coalition that received substantial financial and organizational support from the American Petroleum Institute. Shell and BP declined an API request to assist the effort.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Assumptions Challenged 
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 For much of the early part of the year, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  debate centered on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and there was little challenge to the widely accepted notion that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are responsible for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But some independent groups and associations are now questioning those assumptions, and they are clamoring to be heard.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We thought that the debate had moved from the science of global warming to what to do about it," said Josh Dorner, spokesman for Clean Energy Works, a recently formed coalition lobbying for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In addition to the ads aimed at Baucus, the CO2 Is Green group has taken out television ads in New Mexico, home to Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman (D), and a half-page ad ran in Monday's Washington Post. The group's founder, Steward, said that higher carbon dioxide levels would spur more growth of plants and trees. He said that past temperature 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  had preceded 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in levels of CO2 and sometimes did not correlate with them at all.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Dorner charged that the group's position was linked to Steward's financial interests. Steward, former vice chairman of Burlington Resources, received more than $600,000 in fees, stock and options for being a director of another oil firm, EOG Resources.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I'm not getting a penny for this," said Steward, who said he owned oil company stocks but no coal stocks. "It's just something I thought people should know."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 25, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Want to address climate change? Fix campaign finance first, many 2020 Democratic candidates say.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 21, 2019 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A21
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0818 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 It is not just about the Earth's rising temperatures. Many Democrats running for president see 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as symptomatic of another problem: too much money in politics. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One White House hopeful, Sen. Michael F. Bennet (D-Colo.), on Thursday unveiled an anticorruption plan explicitly meant to make it easier for Congress to address global warming - and other Democratic priorities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "So much of what we've got to get done, from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to health care to 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  [the] tax code, is going to require us to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the way our politics work. Because for the decade that I've been in the Senate, it largely hasn't worked," Bennet told reporters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He's just one of many 2020 candidates tying desired legislative action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  with the need to overhaul how money is spent on electoral campaigns and lobbying. Their thinking goes: As the oil, gas and coal industries pump money into political campaigns, fossil-fuel interests have been able to forestall meaningful legislation to slow 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Montana Gov. Steve Bullock (D) is, similarly, putting campaign finance reform at the center of his presidential bid in part to address the rising temperatures contributing to wildfires in his home state. "Tackling money in politics is the first step towards addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , skyrocketing healthcare costs, income inequality - and all of the biggest crises of our time," Bullock tweeted shortly after announcing his candidacy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And in interviews, speeches and social media posts, Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.), Kamala D. Harris (Calif.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), as well as former congressman Beto O'Rourke of Texas and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., have also lamented the big role rich donors are playing in politics and how that is forestalling action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You want a government that's going to be responsive on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  fast?" yet another Democratic candidate, Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, said at the "We the People Summit" summit in April. "Not so long as the oil industry is calling the shots in this town."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Democratic candidates are paying attention to the issue partly because of the swarms of activists who have shown up at campaign events and pressed hopefuls, such as O'Rourke and former vice president Joe Biden, to commit to refuse campaign donations from lobbyists or executives in the oil, gas or coal business.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So far, the pressure has worked. The vast majority of the 2020 Democratic field - 18 of the 23 candidates, including O'Rourke - has signed the "No Fossil Fuel Money pledge," according to the anti-fossil-fuel nonprofit advocacy group Oil 
\f1\i\b \ul Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  US. Biden is expected to sign the pledge in the coming days.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Bennet's plan in particular calls for a lifetime ban on lobbying for former members of Congress, a crackdown on coordination between candidates and ostensibly independent "super PACs" and a constitutional amendment to overturn what many Democrats see as the biggest step back in campaign finance reform in a generation - the  Citizens United  Supreme Court decision.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Citing the Constitution's First Amendment guarantee of free speech, the high court in 2010 ruled to bar the federal government from limiting political spending of corporations and labor unions via groups independent of campaigns. Ever since, many Democrats say, "dark money" groups have uncorked a spigot of political spending.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "John McCain ran on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," Bennet said of the 2008 GOP presidential nominee. "He raised it over and over again himself during the debates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "What happened? What 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ? It was the decision in 2010 in  Citizens United  which opened the floodgates of the Koch brothers' money and corrupted our politics," he continued, referring to political spending from billionaire industrialists Charles and David Koch.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Energy firms in particular are spending big money on politics. According to End Citizens United, a political action committee that opposes the Supreme Court decision, oil and gas companies accounted for 10 of the 17 largest corporate contributions to outside groups during the 2018 elections.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The  Citizens United  decision, according to its opponents, has had a measurable effect on how willing Republicans are to support 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation now that fossil-fuel companies, many of which oppose strict carbon-pollution rules, have more leverage over lawmakers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The fossil-fuel industry snuffed out Senate bipartisanship on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said this week at the National Press Club. "Weaponization of that new unlimited dark money powered by the fossil-fuel industry cost us a decade of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  progress."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Few members of Congress have harped on this message longer than Whitehouse. He is not running for president, but he urged 2020 candidates to pick up his argument.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Any Democrat is going to be buoyed by the public pressure on this," he said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 21, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Want an infrastructure bill? Address climate change.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 7, 2018 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0817 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chuck Schumer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Chuck Schumer,a Democrat from New York, is Senate minority leader. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Now that Democrats will soon control one branch of Congress, President Trump is again signaling that infrastructure could be an area of compromise. We agree, but if the president wanted to earn Democratic support in the Senate, any infrastructure bill would have to include policies and funding that help transition our country to a clean-energy economy and mitigate the risks the United States already faces from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For too long, Congress has failed to act in a meaningful way to combat the threat posed by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Powerful special interests have a stranglehold on many of my Republican colleagues; some GOP legislators even refuse to acknowledge that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is happening. So despite the immense size of the problem, despite wildfires that sweep through the West and hurricanes that grow more powerful over the years, real action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has been stymied by the denialism of the president and too many Republicans in Congress. While notable progress was made during the Obama administration to stimulate renewable-energy technology and fashion international agreements to reduce carbon emissions, the Trump administration has shamefully undone much of that progress and appears unwilling to take any new steps to combat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Worst of all, the administration is pulling the United States out of the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord, giving a green light to countries such as China and India to increase carbon emissions by unacceptable amounts.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the 116th Congress, however, Democrats will have an extraordinary opportunity to force action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Not only will House Democrats have the power to propose, debate and pass progressive legislation on the subject, but Senate Democrats will have substantial leverage as well. For any legislation to pass the Senate, 60 votes are required.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One area where there's an opportunity to do something on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is an infrastructure bill, since Trump has repeatedly named infrastructure as a potential area of compromise in the new Congress. Truthfully, infrastructure investment has been a priority for Democrats for decades. That's why Democrats last year proposed a trillion-dollar infrastructure bill, which the president ignored. Our plan suggested bold new investments in clean energy and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  resiliency, one step on our path to a 100 percent clean-energy economy. And we could finance the bill entirely by reversing the worst giveaways in the Trump tax bill, those gifted to multinational corporations and the wealthiest of the wealthiest.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's why I'm sending a letter to President Trump today  that describes the kinds of policies Democrats expect in an infrastructure bill. For example, we should make massive investments in  renewable-energy infrastructure, especially in exciting new technologies such as battery storage. We also must make our infrastructure more 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -  resilient, particularly the electrical grid and our water and wastewater systems. Those items belong in any infrastructure bill - indeed they were all included in the Senate Democratic proposal last year - but we can and should go further.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We should provide permanent tax credits for clean-energy production and storage, electric vehicles, and energy-  efficient homes. We should invest in conservation, wildlife and deferred maintenance on our public lands, because this can both mitigate the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and grow the outdoor economy. We should significantly reduce the release of methane pollution from domestic energy production. And we have to reduce the amount of carbon we release into the atmosphere. All of these policies can and will create good-paying green jobs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 No doubt, a single infrastructure bill alone will not solve our 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problem. But it is an important and necessary first step to include at least some, if not many, of these ideas. Without them, Trump should not count on Democratic support in the Senate.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's impossible to overstate the urgency with which America needs to confront 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Even the Trump administration, which officially denies humankind's role in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , released a report last month outlining its current impacts and warning of dire consequences in the near future. Without drastic intervention, more powerful storms, floods and fires, as well as billions of dollars in damage to our economy, await the next generation of Americans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Two weeks ago, I was blessed with the birth of my first grandchild. I want him to grow up and grow old in a world that's safe and healthy - a dream I know every American has for their children and grandchildren. In the next Congress, Democrats have to force the issue. An infrastructure bill in the new Congress could be one of the first opportunities we get. We intend to take it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer, a Democrat from New York, is Senate minority leader. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 7, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Amid violence, France cools heels on climate-change tax
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 5, 2018 Wednesday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01585 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson;James McAuley
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The single most effective weapon in the fight against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is the tax code - imposing costs on those who emit greenhouse gases, economists say. But as French President Emmanuel Macron learned over the past three weeks, implementing such taxes can be politically explosive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On Tuesday, France delayed for six months a plan to raise already steep taxes on diesel fuel by 24 cents a gallon and gasoline by about 12 cents a gallon. Macron argued that the taxes were needed to curb 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  by weaning motorists off petroleum products, but violent demonstrations in the streets of Paris and other French cities forced him to backtrack - at least for now. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "No tax is worth putting in danger the unity of the nation," said Prime Minister \'c3\'89douard Philippe, who was trotted out to announce the concession.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was a setback for the French president, who has been trying to carry the torch of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action in the wake of the Paris accords of December 2015. "When we talk about the actions of the nation in response to the challenges of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , we have to say that we have done little," he said last week.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Macron is hardly alone in his frustration. Leaders in the United States, Canada, Australia and elsewhere have found their carbon pricing efforts running into fierce opposition. But the French reversal was particularly disheartening for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -policy experts, because it came just as delegates from around the world were gathering in Katowice, Poland, for a major conference designed to advance 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  measures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Like everywhere else, the question in France is how to find a way of combining ecology and equality," said Bruno Cautr\'c3\'a8s, a researcher at the Paris Institute of Political Studies. "Citizens mostly see punitive public policies when it comes to the environment: taxes, more taxes and more taxes after that. No one has the solution, and we can only see the disaster that's just occurred in France on this question." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Higher taxes on energy have always been a hard sell, politically," said N. Gregory Mankiw, an economics professor at Harvard University and advocate of carbon taxes. "The members of the American Economic Association are convinced of their virtue. But the median citizen is not."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the United States - where energy-related taxes are among the lowest in the developed world - politicians, their constituents and their donors have repeatedly made that clear.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 President Bill Clinton proposed a tax on the heat content of fuels as part of his first budget in 1993. Known as the BTU tax, for British thermal unit, it would have raised $70 billion over five years while increasing gasoline prices no more than 7.5 cents a gallon.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Clinton was forced to retreat in the face of a rebellion in his own party. "I'm not going to vote for a BTU tax in committee or on the floor, ever, anywhere. Period. Exclamation point," said then-Sen. David L. Boren (D-Okla.).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The state of Washington has also tried - and failed twice - to win support for a carbon tax or carbon "fee." In 2016, the state's voters rejected a ballot initiative that would have balanced a carbon tax with other tax cuts. In 2018, a wider coalition sought backing for an initiative that would have poured fee revenue into clean energy projects, job retraining and early retirement plans for affected workers. The fee would have started at $15 a ton and gone up $2 a ton for 10 years. It, too, failed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To be sure, some 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -conscious countries have adopted carbon taxes, including Chile, Spain, Ukraine, Ireland and nations in Scandinavia. Others have adopted cap-and-trade programs that effectively put prices on carbon emissions. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Only around 12 percent of global emissions are covered by pricing programs such as taxes on the carbon content of fossil fuels or permit trading programs that put a price on emissions, according to the International Monetary Fund. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Policy experts say that to some extent the prospects of carbon taxes may depend on what happens to the money raised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Using the revenue for deficit reduction, as was planned in France, is a no-no. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Even in the best of times, carbon taxes must be carefully crafted to avoid political pitfalls," said Paul Bledsoe, a former Senate Finance Committee staffer and Clinton White House 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  adviser. "In particular, much of the revenue raised must be recycled back to middle-income workers. Macron's approach put the money toward deficit reduction, stoking already simmering class grievances."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Last year, a group of economists and policy experts - including former treasury secretaries James A. Baker III and Lawrence H. Summers and former secretary of state George P. Shultz - advocated a tax-and-dividend approach. It would feature a carbon tax of $40 a ton, affecting coal, oil and natural gas. The revenue would be used to pay dividends to households. Progressive tax rates would mean more money for lower- and middle-income earners. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Because the revenue is rebated equally to everyone, most people will get more back than they pay in carbon taxes," said Mankiw, who is part of the group. "So if people understood the plan, and believed it would be carried out as written, it should be politically popular."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So far the group, called the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Leadership Council, has not been able to generate much support from members of Congress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Canada is about to offer a test case.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has unveiled a "backstop" carbon tax of $20 a ton, to take effect in January, for the four Canadian provinces that do not already have one. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trudeau was elected partly on a promise of this sort of measure, but it's costing him more political capital than expected. Conservative premiers oppose the plan, which looks set to become an election issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trudeau's policy, however, is designed to withstand criticism. About 90 percent of the revenue from the backstop tax will be paid back to Canadians in the form of annual "
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action incentive" payments. Because of the progressive tax rates, about 70 percent of Canadians will get back more than they paid. If they choose to be more energy efficient, they could save even more money.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The first checks will arrive shortly before Canadian elections.  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy doesn't only suffer from lack of enthusiasm. It also arouses the ire of right-wing populist movements.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Many of the people most angry at Macron's tax come from right-wing rural areas. The German right-wing opposition party Alternative for Germany has called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a hoax. And in Brazil, a new populist president had indicated he will develop, not preserve, the Amazon forests that pull CO2 out of the air and pump out oxygen.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 President Trump, who has said he does not believe 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science, also took to Twitter to say Macron's setback showed Trump was right to spurn the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I am glad that my friend @EmmanuelMacron and the protestors in Paris have agreed with the conclusion I reached two years ago. The Paris Agreement is fatally flawed because it raises the price of energy for responsible countries while whitewashing some of the worst polluters in the world," he wrote. "American taxpayers - and American workers - shouldn't pay to clean up others countries' pollution."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fuel taxes, however, generate revenue that stays inside home countries without going to pay for others' pollution. And the Paris agreement placed much greater responsibilities on developing countries than ever before.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A member of Trump's beachhead transition team at the Energy Department also took to Twitter to celebrate the collapse of Macron's fuel tax plan.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's easy for politicians like #Macron to lecture us about #ClimateChange because the elites don't notice the economic hit. Working class people do. Working class French people are ANGRY about unnecessarily higher fuel taxes that are only a #virtuesignal," wrote Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Institute for Energy Research - a group funded in the past by Koch Industries, the American Petroleum Institute and Exxon Mobil.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jason Bordoff, director of the Columbia University Center on Global Energy Policy, said the celebration "would be reading too much into what's happening in France." That's because Macron was already seen as favoring the rich over the working class, he said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nicolas Hulot, a popular 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activist and Macron's former environment minister, made national headlines in August when he resigned from Macron's cabinet during a live radio broadcast. His reason: that the French government was more word than deed when it came to fighting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the heels of the French government's abrupt reversal on fuel taxes Tuesday, Hulot praised what he couched as a necessary political maneuver, albeit one that was not good for the environment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I welcome a necessary, inescapable, courageous and common sense decision in the current context, which saddens everyone," he said, speaking on France's RTL radio. But, he added, there would probably be consequences from the popular uprisings against the diesel taxes, which the government has now suspended for six months. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "All that is not good news for the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," he said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The key, said Hulot, is not to impose action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in a technocratic way, in a way that ordinary people do not understand. "The ecological challenge shouldn't be against the French," he said. "We need every Frenchwoman and Frenchman. On that, there is obviously a huge amount of misperceptions and misunderstandings."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 james.mcauley@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 McAuley reported from Paris.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 5, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate Change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 6, 2009 Sunday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A09
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0146 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 On 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the Obama administration has poured billions of dollars into projects to save energy or make it cleanly. But its real test is coming -- and looking harder all the time.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This fall, the Senate takes up a bill to cap U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions -- allowing power plants, oil refineries and Wall Street bankers to buy and sell credits to pollute. Obama supported this kind of "cap and trade" system during the campaign, but now environmentalists say he may need to intervene personally -- as he has on health care, with public speeches and private lobbying of moderate Democrats and Republicans -- to save it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill has been attacked by the oil and coal lobbies as a devastating tax on energy. Still, Carol Browner, the administration's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  "czar," said last  week  Obama will  not give up on the idea of a cap on emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  -- David A. Fahrenthold 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 6, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 NIH unit deletes references to climate 'change'
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 August 24, 2017 Thursday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0496 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Lenny Bernstein
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Official defends editsto website while criticscall them 'cleansing'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A unit of the National Institutes of Health has removed references to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate "change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " from its website, deletions that one environmental group criticizes as "cleansing" but that an NIH official described as minor.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The revisions occurred on the site of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A headline that read "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Human Health," for example, was altered to "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Human Health." A menu title that read "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Children's Health" in June now appears as "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Children's Health." Links to a fact sheet on "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Human Health" also were removed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The cleansing continues," said David Doniger, director of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and clean-air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "But they're not going to be able to erase the science, or the truth, by scrubbing websites."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  were revealed in a report by the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative, a group of nonprofits and academics that monitor what they call "potential threats" to federal policy and scientific research on energy and the environment.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Christine Flowers, the NIEHS director of communications, played down the 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Wednesday. She said she made them as she added and moved information on the site over a period of months.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's a minor 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to a title page," Flowers said of one headline alteration, "but the information we provide remains the same. In fact, it's been expanded."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The phrase "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " still can be found several times in the text below the headline that now reads "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Human Health." Also still available is a "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Human Health Literature Portal."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Similar word 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  have been made on Interior Department, Transportation Department and Environmental Protection Agency website pages that mentioned 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Scientists inside and outside the government have questioned the motivations because of top Trump administration officials' doubts about how much human activity influences global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In some cases, though, career staffers may have been responsible for the new wording on sites in an effort to avoid administration scrutiny on hot-button issues.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The EPA's "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Ready Water Utilities" site was renamed before Donald Trump took office - to "Creating Resilient Water Utilities."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In April, the EPA took down several website pages that contained detailed 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  data and scientific information. That action, on the eve of a large demonstration in Washington about protecting the environment, included removal of a Web page explaining 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that had been on the site for nearly two decades.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The NIEHS, one of 27 institutes and centers that constitute NIH, focuses on the environment's impact on health. Most of NIH, the nation's premier biomedical research campus, is in Bethesda, Md., but the NIEHS is in North Carolina's Research Triangle Park.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 leonard.bernstein@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0August 24, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 How a conservative think tank is trying to tackle climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 28, 2018 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A18
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0970 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0James Hohmann
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0PALO ALTO, CALIF.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 PALO ALTO, Calif. - While President Trump is systematically rolling back his predecessor's efforts to combat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the conservative Hoover Institution is trying to address the reality of rising temperatures, higher sea levels and more extreme weather.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The center-right think tank, which is affiliated with Stanford University and home to GOP grandees such as Condoleezza Rice, is pursuing a host of initiatives that treat 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a pressing national security challenge and a market failure that requires government intervention. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's a striking contrast to Washington, where the Paris accord has been abandoned, skeptics of established science hold some of the most important jobs in government and congressional Republicans long ago eschewed efforts to seriously confront environmental disruption.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But here, the spirit of innovation that defines Silicon Valley trumps the ideological rigidity that reigns in the capital.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 George Shultz, who served as Ronald Reagan's secretary of state, embraces the idea of a carbon tax. He says it would free up private firms to find the most efficient ways to cut emissions. The 97-year-old chairs an energy policy task force at Hoover that advocates, among other solutions, expanding nuclear power. "Let's take out an insurance policy to protect against the risk of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," Shultz said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gary Roughead, a former chief of naval operations, studies the consequences of global warming in the Arctic. It's  causing polar ice caps to melt and, for all intents and purposes, opening a new ocean. That means trade routes will soon emerge that are now blocked by ice. The retired admiral, one of only two people to ever command both the Atlantic and Pacific fleets, believes the United States must prepare for and capitalize on this. That will require checking Russia's expansionary push in the northern sea lanes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jim Mattis, who spent almost four years at Hoover between retiring from the Marines and leaving to become defense secretary, has described 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a national security threat, citing rising sea levels and desertification. Africa's Lake Chad, for example, has shrunk by about 90 percent, causing instability that fueled the rise of the Boko Haram terrorist group.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Hoover has even hired an alumna of Barack Obama's White House to focus on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Alice Hill was a special assistant to the president and the senior director for resilience policy on the National Security Council. Before that, she served as a judge and led a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  task force at the Department of Homeland Security.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is a global problem, and it's really a problem that needs attention from the highest levels of government," Hill said during a day-long Hoover media roundtable Monday. "It's difficult to solve it with 50 states and all the municipalities trying to pull and row in one direction without somebody as a captain of the ship. . . . It's here, and we need to address it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Goldman Sachs fortified its New York headquarters after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. When Hurricane Sandy hit in 2012, the investment bank's lights stayed on while the buildings around it went dark. But many of the firm's employees couldn't get to work, because the public infrastructure was in shambles. Hill cites this as a parable to explain why a whole-of-government response is needed to fight 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "You can't live on an island," she said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Half of Americans live in coastal counties. Cities with crucial naval installations, such as Norfolk, are especially at risk. Hill praised Congress for including language in this year's defense reauthorization bill that requires the Pentagon to identify the 10 military installations that are most vulnerable to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and outline what can be done to shore them up.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As far as most experts are concerned, the underlying facts are not up for debate. Scientists agree that Hurricane Harvey was more damaging than it would have been in the past, because of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . California has just suffered its worst drought ever and some of the worst wildfires ever. Almost every year brings a larger number of natural disasters that cause more than $1 billion in damage.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To be sure, Hoover is not monolithic. There are several fellows whose views hew much closer to standard GOP orthodoxy. Some have dismissed "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  hysteria" and challenged the accuracy of modeling that forecasts the extent of future increases in sea level.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But for those looking for solutions, the focus is on market innovations more than government mandates - naturally, for a think tank where Milton Friedman spent three decades as a research fellow. Terry Anderson, a father of "free market environmentalism," thinks it was good to pull out of the Paris accord and believes that the world has plenty of time to adjust to long-term shifts in the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But he also supports overhauling government subsidy programs, such as crop and flood insurance, that incentivize bad decisions and help obscure the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "We need to find ways to make sure we can be resilient," he said. "We need to find ways to get people out of harm's way."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Hill, who worked on Obama's National Security Council, said Congress needs to stop bailing out places with no building codes. She lamented that people in Houston are rebuilding houses in areas that will inevitably flood again and that they're able to do so because of taxpayer-funded flood insurance and disaster relief appropriated by congressional Republicans who opposed help for New York and New Jersey after Sandy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "That's not a long-term sustainable approach for the federal government," she said, advocating for some national building standards and enforcement. "We need to take steps to prepare ourselves, to mitigate the risk as much as possible in advance."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 james.hohmann@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 28, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Avalanche lilies could hold clues about climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 30, 2012 Sunday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a  Washington Post Digital All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A04
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0724 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Lynda V. Mapes
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0MOUNT RAINIER, WASH.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 MOUNT RAINIER, Wash. - University of Washington researcher Elinore Theobald is studying the relationship between flowers and their pollinators on Washington's highest mountain. And what she is finding so far - avalanche lilies at higher elevation set seed at one-third the rate of lilies elsewhere on the mountain - points to troubling questions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Is it possible that the lilies are struggling because of a mismatch in their timing with their pollinators? And does that, in turn, point to trouble as the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Theobald, a doctoral candidate, is working with field assistants Natasha Lozanoff and Margot Tsakonas to understand not just how a single species might be affected by even small 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in temperature, but how biological interactions between species respond to 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  
\f1\i\b \ul climates
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is, if you will, a burning question: The average annual temperature in the Pacific Northwest has increased 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit since 1920, and is projected to increase an additional 3.6 to 7.2 degrees or more by the end of the century, according to the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Impacts Group at the University of Washington.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What might that mean for plant and animal communities? One way to find out is to head to the mountain, Theobald figured, where the range in elevation can be a proxy for the shifts in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that are forecast.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 She posits that understanding how plant and pollinator interactions are playing out at those different elevations today might be a clue to what will occur in the future. And if you love avalanche lilies, it might not be good.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Erythronium montanum seems to be extremely diminished in its ability to set seed in some monitoring plots. The question is why. One theory Theobald is exploring is that the window of timing when the flower is ready for pollination and the presence of pollinators seeking food is quite precise.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And, as one of the first flowers to bloom in spring, there is reason to suspect avalanche lilies will be among the most sensitive to 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  temperature, and it could alter the timing of snowmelt and flowering, putting them out of synchrony with the pollinators.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 But the first step for Theobald is to understand exactly what role 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  plays in determining the plant's range limits and the interaction between plants and their pollinators. Which is why, on a recent day, Theobald and Lozanoff were climbing up and down the south side of Mount Rainier, checking their five research sites at different elevations, from 5,249 feet to 5,905 feet - the limits of the plant's range today in the mountain's subalpine meadows.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The researchers have tied bags over some lilies to learn whether they can self-pollinate. Answer: no. They have also, in pairs of flowers at similar elevation, hand-pollinated one flower while leaving the other alone, to see whether the flowers would set seed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So far, they have found that plants at the highest elevation were greatly limited in their ability to set fruit. Yet at lower ranges, fruit production (once seed was set) was lower than elsewhere. That suggested the problem at lower elevations wasn't pollination, but perhaps snacking by deer or even competition.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That could be bad news for the lily, too, if it's because trees, at lower elevations, are shading them out. Warming temperatures already are implicated in trees invading meadows on the mountain. Could the future be a lily squeezed at the top and the bottom of its range, limiting its survival to a narrower midrange of abundance?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's too soon to know, but the team is gathering more data in an attempt to dissect a complex ecology, tracking snowmelt dates and temperature readings from sensors buried in the soil, and compiling, week by week, the life events in the plant's season - when it emerges, blooms and sets seed and fruit (or doesn't), and even counting and identifying actual pollinator visits to fill in the picture.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The observance of the plant's phenology - its seasonal events, from emergence from the snowpack to blooming and setting seed and fruit - provides visible evidence, through the power of simple observation, of how small shifts in temperature may be controlling survival.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We don't have long-term data," Theobald said. "But we want to understand which plants are most sensitive to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and what resources there are for pollinators. We think there may be a link."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - Seattle Times
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 30, 2012
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Interior secretary blames Congress for lack of action on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 9, 2019 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A18
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0718 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 He acknowledged 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is real. He acknowledged that people are contributing to it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So why, Democratic lawmakers asked David Bernhardt, isn't he doing more to address global warming?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Apparently, because Congress hasn't told him to.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During his first testimony to Congress since becoming interior secretary, Bernhardt this week said it is up to lawmakers to direct bureaucrats such as himself to address the causes and effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The punt back to lawmakers is likely to frustrate House Democrats who are trying to hold the administration's feet to the fire on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , since they know that any significant 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related legislation to emerge from their chamber is likely to be rejected by either the president or the GOP-controlled Senate. At the same time, Democrats have passed only a single 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill - one keeping the United States in the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord from which President Trump has withdrawn - since taking the majority. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The exchange came when Democrats pressed Bernhardt about why his department isn't doing more to assess and mitigate the effects of warming temperatures, acidifying oceans and other effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  over the vast lands and waters stewarded by the Interior Department.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Isn't this really your job?" Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-Maine) asked.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Bernhardt pushed back against the assertion, arguing he has no legal obligation to act in response to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "My perspective on this is probably a little different than yours," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He noted that of more than 600 instances in the law requiring the interior secretary to take some action, none tell him that he "shall," as is the legal parlance, manage federal lands to stop global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  "There's no 'shalls,' " Bernhardt said. "You guys come up with the 'shalls.' "
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Pingree responded by asking Bernhardt to identify legal barriers to acting on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "If there's something legally stopping you, then we're Congress," she said. "We make the laws."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is a lawyerly defense Bernhardt has turned to before, including in an interview last year with The Washington Post. Yet law or no law, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  remains a threat to the land the Interior Department is tasked with overseeing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the national park system alone, warming temperatures threaten to undermine the very nature of many popular tourist spots, such as by melting the glaciers of Montana's Glacier National Park and imperiling the iconic trees of California's Joshua Tree National Park.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And the department holds considerable sway over the overall U.S. contribution to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . A U.S. Geological Survey study published last year found that a quarter of the nation's carbon dioxide emissions came from the extracting and burning of fossil fuels from federal lands.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet in the more than two years that Donald Trump has been president, the Interior Department has sought to undo much of the previous administration's efforts to slow the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Its actions include rolling back rules designed to reduce the release of methane, a potent heat-trapping gas, from oil and natural gas wells and lifting a moratorium on new coal leasing on public lands.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During the hearing, Bernhardt said his department does not plan on easing up on oil and gas drilling on public lands when asked by Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) if a recent United Nations report on the possible extinction of up to 1 million species worldwide gives him pause.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  "Are we going to stop oil and gas development because of this report? The answer to that is no," he said, again noting it is up to Congress to decide what the government does or does not allow on federal lands.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But when it came to the issue of drilling for oil and gas off the coasts of states outside the Gulf of Mexico, Bernhardt suggested he would defer to local leaders.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  "I'm not aware of a single lease that was ever developed over the opposition of a state," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The department has put on pause plans to expand offshore drilling across the U.S. continental shelf after a federal court ruled against the Trump administration's effort to lift a drilling ban in the Arctic and Atlantic oceans. That decision came amid stiff opposition to offshore drilling from Democrats and Republicans from along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 9, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate study rules out less severe warming scenarios
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 23, 2020 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01224 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Andrew Freedman;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Scientists project average temperature rise of 4.1 to 8.1 degrees if trends hold
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The current pace of human-caused carbon emissions is increasingly likely to trigger irreversible damage to the planet, according to a comprehensive international study released Wednesday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Researchers studying one of the most important and vexing topics in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science - how the Earth's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will respond to a doubling of the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere - found that warming is extremely unlikely to be on the low end of estimates.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Scientists now say that if human activities, such as burning oil, gas and coal,  as well as deforestation, continue apace, the Earth's global average temperature will most likely increase between 4.1 and 8.1 degrees Fahrenheit (2.3 and 4.5 degrees Celsius) by about 2070. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If warming reaches even just the midpoint of this new range, it would be extremely damaging, said Kate Marvel, a physicist at NASA's Goddard Institute of Space Studies and Columbia University, who called it the equivalent of a "five-alarm fire" for the planet.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Researchers have long believed that a doubling of carbon dioxide would increase temperatures between 2.7 and 8.1 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 and 4.5 Celsius), as first laid out in a 1979 report.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new range published Wednesday shows at least a 95 percent chance that a doubling of carbon dioxide, which the world is on course to reach within the next 50 years, would result in warming greater than 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius) relative to preindustrial temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's significant because 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit  is the threshold beyond which scientists say the Earth will suffer catastrophic effects - disruptive sea level rise, intolerable heat waves and other extreme weather and permanent damage to ecosystems.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Staying below that is still possible. If emissions are drastically cut in the near term, a doubling of carbon dioxide levels could be avoided.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The study by 25 researchers from around the world and published in the journal Reviews of Geophysics is the result of a four-year effort sponsored by the World 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Research Program. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 A scientific 'holy grail'
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 For decades, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists have been seeking to  answer the question of how much global temperatures would climb if the amount of carbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere were to double. This measure was estimated in a 1979 study from the National Research Council led by Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Jules Charney.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The "Charney Report" concluded that the planet's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sensitivity was most likely within the range of 2.6 to 8.1 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 to 4.5 Celsius).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Ever since, researchers have tried to narrow that range, contending with myriad uncertainties in how the oceans and atmosphere respond to historical 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in solar output, the planet's orbit, past periods with higher amounts of carbon dioxide in the air as well as feedback such as how various cloud types trap or reflect heat energy. In addition, scientists have wrestled with uncertainties in models that simulate past, present and future 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Constraining 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sensitivity has been something of a holy grail in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science for some time," said study co-author Zeke Hausfather, director of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and energy at the Breakthrough Institute.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sensitivity question has taken on new urgency as some of the newest computer models developed for the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  (IPCC), due in a report  next year, show the Earth is more responsive to carbon dioxide than depicted in earlier models. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new result narrows the range from what Charney and his colleagues calculated while raising the lower bound.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Multiple lines of evidence
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 To produce the study, teams of researchers worked like   detectives, sifting  through multiple sources of evidence. Some of the data examined include instrument records since the industrial revolution, paleoclimate records from coral reefs and ice cores that provide evidence of prehistoric temperatures, and satellite observations and intricate models of how the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  system works.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To reach their new authoritative estimates, the researchers required that multiple lines of evidence point to the same general conclusion and that this be explained without being the result of a bias that influences one or more sources of evidence.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "An important part of the process was to ensure that the lines of evidence were more or less independent," lead author Steven Sherwood, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at the University of New South Wales's ARC Center of Excellence for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Extremes, said in a news release. "You can think of it as the mathematical version of trying to determine if a rumor you hear separately from two people could have sprung from the same source; or if one of two eyewitnesses to a crime has been influenced by hearing the story of the other one," Sherwood stated.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Andrew Dessler, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at Texas A&M University who was not involved in the study, called this "a tour de force of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science." He said via email that the study "really, really kills the skeptical argument that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sensitivity is low."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It would have been great if the skeptics had been correct and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sensitivity was, say, 1.5\'c2\'b0C, but that's not the world we live in," Dessler said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Enabling decision-making
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The term "
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sensitivity" might seem like an academic construct, a metric that matters more in the grand theories and computer models of scientists than it does in everyday life.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In fact, the study has a message that matters a great deal: There is  little or no chance that warming caused by human  activities turns out to be minor.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There are at least two main pieces of evidence that lead to the conclusion, according to the study.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  The first is simply the warming that has already occurred since the industrial revolution. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Currently, with atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide at 415 parts per million, compared with a preindustrial level of 280 parts per million, the world is  about halfway toward  doubling atmospheric carbon dioxide.  And already, the Earth has warmed by at least 1 degree Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) above  preindustrial temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the same time, researchers rejected the idea that  there is any factor in the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  system that will counteract the warming trend in a meaningful way.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the past, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  contrarians and doubters have suggested that clouds might limit warming by reflecting sunlight  from Earth to cool the planet some. But the study finds that isn't likely to happen.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We find that a negative total cloud feedback is very unlikely," the authors write.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The uncertainty is really asymmetric here," Marvel said in an interview. "We can be very confident in ruling out sensitivities on the low end. So basically what we're saying here is that there is really no evidence for any sort of natural response, any sort of big, stabilizing feedback, that in the absence of human actions, is going to save us from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Gavin Schmidt, a study co-author and Marvel's colleague at NASA Goddard, offered some optimism, noting that collective action by nations could prevent the doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The primary determinant of future 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is human actions," Marvel said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 andrew.freedman@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 23, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Claim about vote on climate change is the real hoax
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 5, 2013 Sunday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a  Washington Post Digital All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01028 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Glenn Kessler
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 "Number of House members who voted in 2011 that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was a 'hoax': 240."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - text of a new video by Obama political arm Organizing for Action
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 President Obama's new political group, Organizing for Action, recently released a video that mocks Republican lawmakers for appearing to play down or dismiss concerns about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Some of the clips are fairly interesting or amusing, depending on your perspective. It has already been viewed more than 235,000 times on YouTube. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We've written before about the growing consensus among 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  researchers that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is the result of human activity; there's little debate about that among scientists, although surveys show increasing skepticism among the American public. But we were intrigued by the video's claim that 240 House lawmakers had voted to declare 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to be a "hoax."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Officials at OFA did not respond to repeated queries about the video, which always makes us especially suspicious. Our colleagues at FactCheck.Org report that the "240" number refers to a vote on an amendment offered by House Democrats, which failed 240 to 184, to a Republican-crafted bill on regulating greenhouse gases. So let's dig into what actually happened. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 The Facts
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The underlying bill, known as the Energy Tax Prevention Act of 2011, was intended to thwart an effort by the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate gases believed to affect 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It would have amended the Clean Air Act to prevent the EPA from regulating carbon dioxide, methane and at least five other gases, instead leaving such policy decisions in the hands of Congress.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The bill, which passed the House 255 to 172 but did not advance in the Senate, danced gingerly around the question of whether humans have a role in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The bill's language included a "sense of the Congress" that stated that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was a problem without giving the reasons: "There is established scientific concern over warming of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  system based upon evidence from observations of increases in global average air and ocean temperatures, widespread melting of snow and ice, and rising global average sea level . . . addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is an international issue, involving complex scientific and economic considerations . . . the United States has a role to play in resolving global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  matters on an international basis."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nevertheless, at the start of the debate on the bill, Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.),  had declared that the premise of the underlying bill "is that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a hoax and carbon pollution does not endanger health and welfare." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Democratic amendment, offered by Waxman, sought to marry a reference to the EPA with language that reflected the scientific consensus: "Congress accepts the scientific findings of the Environmental Protection Agency that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is occurring, is caused largely by human activities, and poses significant risks for public health and welfare." The second part of the amendment comes almost straight out of the conclusions of the National Research Council in 2010.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But of course, mentioning the EPA's similar conclusions was also intended as a poison pill in a bill designed to clip the agency's wings. Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) complained that "this is an amendment that attempts to reverse the entire thrust of this legislation."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sensenbrenner added that "this is not a debate on the underlying science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another lawmaker who spoke against the amendment, then-Rep. Robert J. Dold (R-Ill.), echoed that: "I believe that human activity is also playing a role. The question is how big a role." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Waxman's amendment was a classic legislative gambit, goading the other side to reject language that - on its face - appears reasonable. To that extent, even in failure the amendment was a success. The Hill newspaper headlined its article on the vote: "Amendment that says 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is occurring fails in House."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The video then gilds the lily by immediately following a reference to the vote with a clip of a floor speech by Rep. Paul C. Broun (R-Ga.): "The idea of human-induced global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is one of the greatest hoaxes perpetrated out of the scientific community." But that speech was given in 2009 - not during the debate over the 2011 amendment.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Moreover, nowhere in the amendment does the word "hoax" appear. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As Dold's comments make clear, a vote against the amendment did not mean someone was a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  denier. Indeed, four GOP lawmakers who voted against the Waxman amendment in 2011, for instance, in 2009 had voted for Waxman's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation to create a cap-and-trade system to reduce greenhouse gases.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Meanwhile, Republicans were not alone in rejecting the Waxman amendment: Three Democrats voted against it. One, Rep. Nick J. Rahall II (W.Va.), was quoted in 2010 as saying "we can't put our heads under the blanket and pretend 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  doesn't exist."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 The Pinocchio Test
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Readers should always be skeptical when political ads attach a particular meaning to a congressional vote. In this case, the Obama group has twisted the meaning of a relatively minor amendment, which was clearly intended to become fodder for future campaign ads.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There's little evidence that a vote against this amendment meant that a lawmaker was affirming that "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was a hoax." There are clearly lawmakers who voted against the amendment who believe that human activity contributes in some way to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - and the underlying bill states that there is "established scientific concern" that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  exists. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To be sure, a significant majority of Republican lawmakers appear to deny a connection between human activity and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , as demonstrated by the clips in the video.  So initially we were tempted to conclude that this claim did not quite rise to Four Pinocchios. But the video seriously undercuts its credibility by claiming all 240 lawmakers dispute even the very idea of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - and such gamesmanship with congressional votes is simply not acceptable.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 kesslerg@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 To read previous Fact Checker columns, go to washingtonpost.com/factchecker.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 5, 2013
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Did climate change cause Superstorm Sandy? Not exactly.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 20, 2012 Tuesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a  Washington Post Digital All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0HEALTH; Pg. E02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01137 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 The complex connection between 
\f1\i \ul climate change
\f2\i0 \ulnone  and Superstorm Sandy
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 When it comes to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and its effect on Superstorm Sandy, it seems that the loudest voices fall into two camps:
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 l The all-in camp: 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is making the weather more extreme. Sandy is the poster child for that and a sign of things to come.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 l The no-effect camp: 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  played no role in Sandy, and there's no cause for concern about the future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The inconvenient truth falls in the middle. Considering hurricane history, a careful read of peer-reviewed literature on hurricanes and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and the views of a range of scientists, the following five ideas best capture current understanding of the role of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on Superstorm Sandy:
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  did not cause Sandy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\i\b\fs20 \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  does not cause storms; storms form when certain weather ingredients come together. History shows that violent storms have struck the Northeast repeatedly. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In the tropics, the formation of hurricanes requires rising air (from converging winds), heat and moisture. These ingredients led to the genesis of Sandy just as they have led to the formation of many storms in the tropics year after year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the 1950s, several hurricanes made landfall along the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast coast. Hazel, which made landfall in the Carolinas as a Category 4 hurricane, was arguably more intense than Sandy, producing wind gusts of more than 90 mph from South Carolina to New York state.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What made Sandy unusual was its interaction with an extratropical low pressure system along the East Coast and its transformation into a "hybrid" storm. But Martin Hoerling, a NOAA meteorologist, disputes the idea that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  had anything to do with this. "In this case, the immediate cause is most likely little more that the coincidental alignment of a tropical storm with an extratropical storm," he told the New York Times.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  may have injected Sandy with more energy and power.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 It's well established that, all other things being equal, warm ocean water energizes hurricanes. The warmer the water, the more intense a hurricane can become. According to Texas Tech atmospheric science professor Katherine Hayhoe, elevated ocean temperatures in the Atlantic might have given Sandy some extra fuel. "October surface ocean temperatures have warmed by two degrees over the last hundred years," Hayhoe told NPR. "So when any given hurricane comes along, on average there's warmer water than there would have been otherwise," she noted, "which gives it more energy, and gives it more strength."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sea-level rise from man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  increased the water level along the Northeast coast.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sea levels have risen around 10 to 15 inches over the last 100 years along the East Coast. About half of that rise is from natural causes (sinking land); the other half can be reasonably attributed to man-made warming. So, one could say 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  added six to eight inches to Sandy's storm surge, worsening flooding.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Still, there's little agreement on the significance of this additional water. Chip Knappenburger, a climatologist affiliated with the Cato Institute, has said that "the overwhelming majority of the damage done by the storm surge would have happened anyway."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chris Mooney, author of "The Republican War on Science," said that the extra water "matters a lot," and pointed to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist Scott Mandia's estimate that 6,000 more people were impacted for each additional inch of sea-level rise.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sea levels are projected to continue rising as the Earth warms, raising the maximum water level when hurricanes come ashore and the potential for flooding.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Decreased Arctic sea ice from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  may have altered steering currents, helping to push Sandy ashore.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This idea is controversial. As Sandy paralleled the Mid-Atlantic coast, well offshore, it suddenly ran into a roadblock - a strong high pressure system in the North Atlantic - and made a sharp left toward the New Jersey shore. Some researchers speculate that the strength of this roadblock was a consequence of record-low Arctic sea ice, which is linked to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The theory goes like this: Less Arctic sea ice reduces temperature contrasts at high latitudes and the strength of westerly winds that serve as the atmosphere's steering current. As a result, the atmosphere's flow slows down and bigger blocks develop.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rutgers University 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  researcher Jennifer Francis, who has published research supporting this theory, told New Jersey's Star-Ledger that she "absolutely" thinks Arctic sea ice played a role in Sandy's track. "The block was what scared [Sandy] into the west," Francis said. "It's a very, very unusual pattern for a hurricane to take."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But some prominent 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists are skeptical about this theory. "I don't believe it," University Center for Atmospheric Research scientist Kevin Trenberth told the New York Times. The "null hypothesis has to be that this is just 'weather' and natural variability," he said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is likely to slowly increase the intensity of hurricanes in the future.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 After a hurricane, you often hear experts say something to the effect of "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is increasing the odds of these kinds of events." It's not that simple.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yes, scientists project gradual increases in hurricane intensity, with heavier rainfall and stronger peak winds. But with the exception of the most intense storms, hurricane frequency is projected to decline.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A clear human influence on hurricane activity may take decades to reveal itself. Although observed warming may be infusing storms with more power, it remains a challenge to quantify the human connection. NOAA hurricane and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  researcher Tom Knutson put it this way: "It is premature to conclude that human activities - and particularly greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming - have already had a detectable impact on Atlantic hurricane activity."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a commentary in Foreign Policy magazine, MIT professor of atmospheric science Kerry Emanuel stresses that establishing a causal connection between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and storms such as Sandy is not needed as a basis for action. The risks inherent in toying with the atmosphere and the possible consequences, Emanuel says, are reason enough to stop "keep kicking the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  can down the road."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "[T]he argument that there is no risk or that we should do nothing is both scientifically and morally indefensible," Emanuel writes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Indeed, there is a great deal of evidence that man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is real and poses risks to society and the environment, especially if its pace accelerates. Stronger hurricanes are just one of many possible unwelcome consequences. There's really no need to oversell connections between storms such as Sandy and global warming to build a case for responding to these risks.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - Jason Samenow
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 20, 2012
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All federal agencies must now factor climate change into their decisions
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 August 3, 2016 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0800 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 White House rules also require quantifying emissions from projects
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the past few weeks, the Obama administration has moved on several fronts to fight 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The administration announced new steps to help fill  U.S. roadways with electric vehicles. It ruled that greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft endanger human health and welfare. And on the international stage, it pushed a deal to phase out super-polluting HFCs, or hydrofluorocarbons, chemicals in refrigerants and other industrial substances that warm the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As Obama's term dwindles, the action isn't over - on Tuesday the White House released yet another policy to fight 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , one with potentially far-reaching consequences. The White House Council on Environmental Quality finalized a six-year process of shaping how the government's agencies, across the board, will factor 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  into their decisions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The council's new guidance involves what's known as NEPA, the National Environmental Policy Act. This foundational 1969 law requires federal agencies to consider the environmental consequences of all kinds of actions - from granting a permit to drill on public land to building a new road or bridge.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For the most significant federal actions, it requires agencies to prepare an "environmental impact statement," essentially a report detailing the environmental consequences of the action and how those consequences might be averted. The federal government wrote 563 of these reports in 2015, according to the White House.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Under the new guidance from the Council on Environmental Quality, agencies will be required not only to factor 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  into those considerations but also to quantify the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts, when possible. And they will have to consider how to do things differently, in a way that could better prepare the United States for a warming 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "From the public standpoint, we are now going to know what all of our decisions add up to in terms of impacting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," said Christy Goldfuss, managing director of the Council on Environmental Quality. "You can think of all the different federal decisions and how they all add up. We have numbers where we can actually say, 'This is a huge decision, given the amount of greenhouse gases coming out of it.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "And that gives the public a chance to really weigh in on decision-making," continued Goldfuss, whose office was established by NEPA. "This will really embody the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  analysis of this administration, where we say the federal agencies have to consider this over time."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The final guidance released Tuesday was preceded by draft versions in 2010 and 2014. Those garnered hundreds of comments from environmentalists, industry representatives and the agencies themselves.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Early reactions to the new policy from the environmental community were favorable. Natural Resources Defense Council President Rhea Suh called it a "game changer."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chase Huntley, director of the Wilderness Society's energy and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  program, said in a statement: "Simply put, this is a commonsense step that underlines the Administration's commitment to addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Federal land management agencies should implement this guidance without delay, and use cutting-edge science to make 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -smart decisions."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When it comes to quantification, the new guidance suggests trying to calculate the amount of carbon dioxide emissions a new project, permit or other agency action would cause - or, alternatively, how much carbon dioxide it might reduce.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The guidance also directs agencies to consider not only direct emissions from a project but also any indirect emissions. For example, building a new road might encourage more people to drive, leading to more vehicular emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If agencies can't quantify the carbon consequences of their actions - if, for instance, there simply isn't a legitimate scientific way of doing so - then the guidance recommends that they conduct a  qualitative analysis instead and explain their reasoning.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Notably, the guidance doesn't prescribe a cutoff level below which an amount of greenhouse gases would be considered insignificant. "A statement that emissions from a proposed Federal action represent only a small fraction of global emissions is essentially a statement about the nature of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  challenge, and is not an appropriate basis for deciding whether or to what extent to consider 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts under NEPA," the guidance reads.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some government agencies may already be considering the effects of their actions on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But they probably were operating under earlier draft guidances and not always applying them uniformly.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This will really provide that consistent framework so that people understand what the rules of the road are," Goldfuss said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0August 3, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The U.S. embarrasses itself on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 7, 2019 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0850 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Joel Clement
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The Trump administration is so fearful of acknowledging 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that White House negotiators are trying to erase all mention of it and the Paris agreement from a multinational statement about the Arctic region, The Post reported last week.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In doing so, the Trump administration has demonstrated its cowardly denial that the region is warming two to three times faster than the rest of the planet, putting its own people in harm's way and damaging relations with allies around the world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This isn't the first time this episode has played out. I bore witness to the administration's self-inflicted embarrassment two years ago while working at the Interior Department. Then, as now, the leader of the free world stood diminished while other nations and the people most affected by the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis faced the consequences.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The eight nations of the Arctic Council, established in 1996, take turns chairing the multinational forum. Every two years, as leadership 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , foreign ministers must sign a negotiated ministerial declaration reaffirming the work and ambitions of the council. Since Trump has entered office, that has meant Arctic nations must suffer through absurd negotiations with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  deniers in the White House.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I was involved in those negotiations two years ago, at the conclusion of the U.S. chairmanship of the council. During the U.S. term, the council was laser-focused on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and prepared to deliver a menu of responses. For example, we had developed, with an international team, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  adaptation and resilience strategy that was up for approval by the foreign ministers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was not a controversial measure. But because U.S. leadership of the council concluded five months into the Trump administration, I was one of the many career civil servants attempting to explain to White House staff why 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  measures should be approved at all. Trump loyalists with no background in science, the Arctic or diplomacy scrutinized every word of the nonbinding declaration, looking for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  language to delete.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It didn't end there. Once negotiators finalized the declaration, another wave of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  insecurity beset the martinets at the White House, and they told then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to demand additional 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  just days before the signing ceremony in Fairbanks, Alaska. Those 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ? Eliminating or 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  language about - you guessed it - 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and the Paris agreement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For a multinational consensus body focused on sustainability and the environment, this was unheard of. Career diplomats at the State Department scrambled, apologetically, to gain approval from their foreign colleagues. Tempers flared and senior diplomats from Canada, Nordic countries and even Russia privately expressed disgust.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was also an insult to the people of the Arctic. In addition to the eight member nations, six indigenous organizations sit at the Arctic Council table, representing hundreds of thousands of people whose ancestors have lived in the Arctic for thousands of years. Unique among multinational bodies, this direct role gives a voice to indigenous knowledge and priorities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The indigenous peoples of the Arctic live squarely in the path of dramatic 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts. Vulnerable coastal villages in Alaska face the twin threats of vicious storms and coastal erosion as protective sea ice shrinks and permafrost thaws beneath their feet. Subsistence hunters in some areas can no longer safely travel and hunt on sea ice.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These people are not running from the threat. They are planning village relocations, using smartphone apps to record environmental 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and find reliable ice routes, testing renewable energy systems and exploring technological fixes to food and water security issues. They have shown the world what it looks like to rise up and adapt.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Trump administration, however, doesn't seem to care. In attempting to erase mention of the threat, they are erasing the lives at stake.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Soon after the Arctic Council dust-up, the administration reassigned me to an auditing job in an office that collects royalty income from fossil fuel companies. Before resigning my position, I filed a whistleblower complaint in July 2017 alleging that the Trump administration retaliated against me for speaking out about the dangers of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  among Alaskan native communities. This new round of international censorship and science denial only confirms that they still have their heads deep in the oil-stained sands of their fossil-fuel-industry donors.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It comforts me to know that the tenacity and ambition of the people of the Arctic endure despite a president who cannot see beyond industry-funded 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  disinformation. Even still, they must wonder: How much longer must we wait before we no longer suffer such cowardly denial from our leaders? How long must we stand alone?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Joel Clement, director of the Office of Policy Analysis at the Interior Department from 2011 to 2017, is a senior fellow at both the Harvard Belfer Center Arctic Initiative and the Union of Concerned Scientists Center for Science and Democracy.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 7, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tom Steyer says 2020 race needs him for urgent action on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 August 16, 2019 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A18
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0941 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Tom Steyer's 11th-hour bid to run for president left many Democrats stunned. Why the 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  of heart? It's partly because Steyer believes he's the best on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the crowded field.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The billionaire financier and Democratic donor said in an interview that he is the only 2020 candidate willing to declare 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a national emergency. Doing so, he claims, would allow him to bring the full power of the executive branch to bear on what he sees as an economic and ecological crisis that for years has defined his public and philanthropic persona.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Steyer, who at the beginning of the year said he would concentrate on his campaign to raise money to impeach President Trump, 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  his mind in July. He has drawn heat from the left for vowing to spend as much as $100 million of his own money in the primary for what would be an extreme long-shot bid - instead of funneling it to grass-roots organizations or congressional races. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Steyer argues that he's needed in the race because global warming is "an urgent emergency" and the other candidates haven't proved they're serious enough about it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The question is what is going to make everyone come to the idea that it's not a problem, but it's an emergency," Steyer said. "It's sort of like, this is 1940. We have a problem, but we haven't had Pearl Harbor." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump's embrace of executive actions has whetted the appetites of Democrats eyeing the White House. Steyer and other Democrats are openly talking about how they would harness and further expand the power of the executive branch instead of working with Congress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some Republicans even warned about this possibility after Trump earlier this year declared a national emergency at the U.S.-Mexico border in a bid to expedite the construction of a border wall, suggesting a future Democratic president might also bypass Congress in pursuit of their own policy aims. "If today, the national emergency is border security," Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said on CNBC in January, "tomorrow the national emergency might be 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Steyer's campaign promises show that was actually quite the appealing option: He believes the president has vast emergency powers when it comes to dealing with the causes and effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . And it's worth noting that Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.) has called gun violence a public health emergency and has promised to take executive action if elected president.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The president's emergency powers are pretty broad," Steyer said. "It gives you the ability to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  regulations. It gives you the ability to move money around. It gives you the ability to do an awful lot." Case in point: The Supreme Court voted late last month to allow the Trump administration to use military funds to build the border wall, despite court challenges seeking to stop it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While stopping short of promising an emergency declaration, other candidates' 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  plans rely heavily on presidential power, too. Every Democratic candidate says they would rejoin the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord. And most say they would end fossil-fuel extraction on federal lands.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Steyer, who made his millions managing a hedge fund, has carved out a place for himself in Democratic politics as an environmental activist.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2013, he publicly urged President Barack Obama to withhold State Department approval of the Keystone XL pipeline from oil-rich Alberta to Gulf Coast refineries. That same year, his environmental advocacy nonprofit organization, NextGen 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , began injecting tens of millions of dollars into efforts to prop up Democratic candidates for office. Since Trump's election, Steyer has expanded his portfolio of causes to include immigrants' rights and Trump's impeachment. In 2017, his nonprofit group 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  its name to NextGen America. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the 2020 race, another candidate is seeking to take on the mantle of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  candidate: Washington Gov. Jay Inslee.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Steyer said he considers Inslee, who has tried for years to pass a carbon tax in his state, a "personal friend." He added that Inslee "is someone who's concerned and hard-working and cares and [is] knowledgeable." The two had been political allies in trying to win Democratic control of the Washington state Senate.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But while Inslee has called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a "crisis" and an "emergency" during the Democratic debates, he has also told reporters at the beginning of his campaign he would not issue an emergency declaration at this point if elected president. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't think unless you're willing to declare a state of emergency you are really dealing with the [issue]," Steyer said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Like Inslee, Steyer has a multipronged plan for dealing with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Steyer wants to create 1 million jobs through a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -focused national service program to aid in disaster readiness and response - and to spend $2 trillion over 10 years to overhaul U.S. infrastructure by building out not only electric vehicle charging stations and energy-efficient buildings but also affordable housing and universal broadband, to the benefit of low-income communities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Ultimately, he wants to cut fossil-fuel use to the point where the United States isn't making a net contribution to the global buildup of greenhouse gases by 2045.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Other candidates target 2030 or 2050 as their deadlines for that goal. Steyer says he has chosen his date because it is realistic and happens to be when his home state, California, has vowed to make its electric grid carbon-free.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There is no perfect date, and I think there is no perfect goal," Steyer said. "But at some level you have to do something that is both feasible - that you can do successfully - and aggressive."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0August 16, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Concern for Climate Change Defines Energy Dept. Nominee
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 12, 2008 Friday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2008 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A09
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01177 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f3\fs20 Washington Post Staff Writer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The man tapped to be the next secretary of energy, Nobel Prize-winning physicist Steven Chu, recently compared the danger of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to a problem with electrical wiring in a house.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Suppose, he said, you had a small electrical fire at home and a structural engineer told you there was a 50 percent chance your house would burn down in the next few years unless you spent $20,000 to fix faulty wiring.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You can either continue to shop for additional evaluations until you find the one engineer in 1,000 who is willing to give you the answer you want -- 'your family is not in danger' -- or you can 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the wiring," Chu said in a presentation in September.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Because of the danger of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , he said, the United States and other countries also need to make some urgent repairs. He said governments need to "act quickly" to implement fiscal and regulatory policies to stimulate the deployment of technologies that boost energy efficiency and "minimize" carbon emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu's views on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  would be among the most forceful ever held by a cabinet member. In an interview with The Post last year, he said that the cost of electricity was "anomalously low" in the United States, that a cap-and-trade approach to limiting greenhouse gases "is an absolutely non-partisan issue," and that scientists had come to "realize that the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is much more sensitive than we thought."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He said people who said they were uncertain whether 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is being caused by humans were "reminiscent of the dialogue in the 1950s and '60s on tobacco." (At that time, many argued that there was insufficient evidence linking smoking to cancer.)
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He put aside the atomic and molecular biophysics research he had been doing as a Stanford University professor to become head of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in 2004 and steer it toward projects aimed at slashing the country's emissions of greenhouse gases that hasten 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . He created the Helios Project, a center that seeks to use solar energy to generate chemical fuel at a low cost.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The laboratory's scientists, including 11 Nobel laureates, have altered yeast and bacteria into organisms that produce gasoline and diesel, improved techniques for converting switchgrass into the sugars needed to produce transportation fuel, and used nanotechnology to improve the efficiency of photovoltaic cells used in solar panels, among other projects.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu said in remarks prepared for a recent meeting in Washington that while private companies such as DuPont and Duke Energy were investing in new technology, "most companies are reluctant to invest in research into transformational technologies that may not see commercialization for 10 years, even though such technologies could dramatically 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the entire energy landscape."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu worked from 1978 to 1987 at AT&T Bell Laboratories, where he did the work that led to his Nobel Prize in 1997. Other scientists at Bell Labs have made scientific breakthroughs leading to advances such as the invention of the transistor, Chu said. But, he added, "the great industrial research institutes such as Bell Labs are now mere shadows of their former glory." (Alcatel-Lucent, the current owner of Bell Labs, said earlier this year that it was cutting back basic science, material physics and semiconductor research.)
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu, who declined to comment yesterday for this story, said that meant government support for research at universities and the national labs was "our only hope to supply the science required to create transformative energy solutions."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu's belief that technology and innovation can help solve energy and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problems appeals to both environmentalists and to many people in the energy industry, though many environmentalists stress that current technology can go a long way toward slashing energy use.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "His experience seems to dovetail perfectly with the President-elect's commitment to bringing new energy technology to market in a timely fashion," said Scott Segal, a Bracewell and Giuliani partner and director of the coal and power industry-backed Electric Reliability Coordinating Council. "An understanding of the art of the possible in energy technology will be critical to the development of a cost-effective 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "He is one of the few guys I know in academia who also has a practical and commercial side," said Terry Tamminen, an energy and environment expert and former chief policy adviser to California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R). "He recognized that he could do so much more with knowledge other than teach classes."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu's nomination, expected to be announced next week, would require Senate confirmation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Energy Department is an odd beast. Thirty-six percent of its $25 billion budget is related to national security, dealing with nuclear materials from such devices as decommissioned nuclear weapons and naval reactors. Another 25 percent of its budget goes to environmental management and civilian nuclear waste management.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another sizable chunk goes to the national laboratories, usually difficult for the central office to manage. In addition to Lawrence Berkeley, they include Oak Ridge, Lawrence Livermore, Sandia, Savannah River, Los Alamos, Argonne, Brookhaven and National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "He's run one of these labs. He gets it," said a Democratic source familiar with the Obama transition team's thinking.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The department could become more central to practical energy issues because of President-elect Barack Obama's interest in promoting renewable energy and carbon capture and storage for coal-fired plants. A program to promote electric cars through infrastructure spending could involve the Energy Department. The department also sets appliance standards and other energy efficiency goals.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The son of highly educated Chinese immigrants, Chu was born in St. Louis in 1948. His father studied chemical engineering at MIT, and his mother studied economics there. Chu describes himself as the "academic black sheep" in a family full of graduate degrees and Ivy League graduates. He went to the University of Rochester. There he read a textbook by the famous physicist Richard Feynman and said he found it "mesmerizing and inspirational." He went to graduate school at the University of California at Berkeley before taking a job at Bell Labs. There he and another scientist did their prize-winning research, trapping atoms with laser cooling techniques.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Chu has used his post at Lawrence Berkeley to preach the importance of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issues. He has met with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and he was co-chair of a committee that produced a report called "Lighting the Way: Toward a Sustainable Energy Future."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the interview with The Post last year, Chu said that he had confidence in mankind's ability to solve its energy problems. The challenge, he said, was to create things from nature that nature cannot make on its own. People figured out how to use titanium blades in jet engines, an improvement over bird wings, he said. "Maybe we can build a better photosynthesis machine," he said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs28 Graphic
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 IMAGE; By Ben Margot -- Associated Press; Physicist Steven Chu, Obama's energy secretary nominee, says technology and innovation can help solve energy and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problems.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 12, 2008
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Winemakers pore over the complications of climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 February 1, 2020 Saturday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A15
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0843 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Laura Reiley
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The prospect of hotter summers, warmer winters, drought and violent weather events have caused experts to warn of coming wine shortages and price increases, 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  varietal character and, in some dire predictions, the extinction of some wines altogether.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Maybe there's a fix, says a research paper in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The scientists' computer models show that if we do nothing, global warming of 2 degrees Celsius would wipe out 56 percent of current wine-growing land; increase that to 4 degrees and an estimated 85 percent of grapes won't be viable.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This team of researchers investigated whether using more heat-tolerant grapes would allow vineyards to adapt. They found that by reshuffling where certain grape varieties are grown, potential losses at 2 degrees of warming could be halved, and cut by a third if warming reached 4 degrees.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The researchers, led by Ignacio Morales-Castilla at the University of Alcal\'c3\'a1 in Spain and Elizabeth Wolkovich at the University of British Columbia at Vancouver, focused on 11 varieties of wine grapes including cabernet sauvignon, chardonnay, merlot, pinot noir, riesling, sauvignon blanc and syrah, as well as lesser-known varieties chasselas, grenache, monastrell (also known as mourvedre) and ugni blanc. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Together, these account for a third of the total area planted to wine grapes and represent important parts of the wine industry in France, Australia, New Zealand and Chile.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The team used vintner and researcher archives to build a model for when each would bud, flower and ripen in wine-growing regions around the world under three different warming scenarios. Then it used 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  projections to see where those varieties would be viable in the future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Each variety has a different sensitivity to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ,' says Ben Cook, one of the study's authors and a professor at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies. 'Basically, replacing varieties with more climatically suitable varieties, called cultivar turnover, increases resilience to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It's a story of mitigation and adaptation.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the study's modeling, the biggest losses are in Spain, Italy and parts of California that are already quite warm. But there are winners in warming scenarios: In Germany, northern Europe and the Pacific Northwest of the United States, where in some years they struggle to get enough sun hours, a warming trend might produce dramatically better wines.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Cook says that 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  out grape varieties isn't the only solution to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Moving vineyards to north-facing slopes might also slow the effects. And in France, Cook says, where irrigation is not utilized, watering could be employed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'We wanted to give a different perspective on all those apocalyptic takes,' Cook says. 'Winemakers are becoming more interested and aware of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and a lot of them are really concerned. They are seeing things they haven't seen before, with storms and heat waves. But what you do about it is a complicated thing.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Geoff Kruth, the president of GuildSomm, an international organization for sommeliers, says-'there are dozens of human decisions " rootstocks, trellising, timing of vineyard work, etc. " that have significant impacts on-how a vine reacts to a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many wine industry experts have pointed to increased ripeness in grapes and higher alcohol levels as indications of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'The real reason wines got riper is that people wanted them to get riper. Generally, if you look at wines from the 2000s, you see more sugar in the grapes and more alcohol in the wines,' Kruth says. 'People have been quick to associate this with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , when in reality it was conscious human decisions. Now you see the alcohols are dropping. It's a consumer trend. The grower and winemaker have a strong hand in all of these things.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mike Heny, a longtime Virginia winemaker who makes wine for 15 vineyards in the state,-points to steps already taken around to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'It's a multipronged approach,' Henry says. 'In Napa, people are removing the primary grape cluster so the secondary one is the one that gets turned into wine so you can push off ripening, which allows for lower potential alcohol and greater physiological maturity so you get greater flavors. People are leaving a bit more canopy, carrying a bigger fruit crop to delay ripening, picking earlier.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In July, Bordeaux allowed a number of new grapes to be planted, he says. It was previously illegal to plant anything but the five main historic grapes. And in Italy, a new program is working to breed traditional vinifera grapes like merlot with hybrids that are hardier and exhibit more resistance.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The question for Heny and other winemakers is whether consumers will be amenable to these 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'A mutt is better than a purebred when the going gets tough,' Heny says. 'But people aren't into drinking the mutt wines as much. At the end of the day, we have to make wines that people love.'
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 laura.reiley@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0February 1, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Winemakers pore over the complications of climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 February 2, 2020 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A22
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0895 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Laura Reiley
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The prospect of hotter summers, warmer winters, drought and violent weather events have caused experts to warn of coming wine shortages and price increases, 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  varietal character and, in some dire predictions, the extinction of some wines altogether.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Maybe there's a fix, says a research paper in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The scientists' computer models show that if we do nothing, global warming of 2 degrees Celsius would wipe out 56 percent of current wine-growing land; increase that to 4 degrees and an estimated 85 percent of grapes won't be viable.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This team of researchers investigated whether using more heat-tolerant grapes would allow vineyards to adapt. They found that by reshuffling where certain grape varieties are grown, potential losses at 2 degrees of warming could be halved, and cut by a third if warming reached 4 degrees.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The researchers, led by Ignacio Morales-Castilla at the University of Alcal\'c3\'a1 in Spain and Elizabeth Wolkovich at the University of British Columbia at Vancouver, focused on 11 varieties of wine grapes including cabernet sauvignon, chardonnay, merlot, pinot noir, riesling, sauvignon blanc and syrah, as well as lesser-known varieties chasselas, grenache, monastrell (also known as mourvedre) and ugni blanc. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Together, these account for a third of the total area planted to wine grapes and represent important parts of the wine industry in France, Australia, New Zealand and Chile.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The team used vintner and researcher archives to build a model for when each would bud, flower and ripen in wine-growing regions around the world under three different warming scenarios. Then it used 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  projections to see where those varieties would be viable in the future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Each variety has a different sensitivity to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ,' says Ben Cook, one of the study's authors and a professor at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies. 'Basically, replacing varieties with more climatically suitable varieties, called cultivar turnover, increases resilience to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It's a story of mitigation and adaptation.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the study's modeling, the biggest losses are in Spain, Italy and parts of California that are already quite warm. But there are winners in warming scenarios: In Germany, northern Europe and the Pacific Northwest of the United States, where in some years they struggle to get enough sun hoursto facilitate budding, fruit set and ripening, a warming trend might produce dramatically better wines.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Cook says that 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  out grape varieties isn't the only solution to pushing back against the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Many vineyards are topographically complex and will allow microclimates, especially if vineyards move to higher ground. Moving vineyards to north-facing slopes might also slow the effects. And in France, Cook says, where irrigation is not utilized, watering could be employed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'We wanted to give a different perspective on all those apocalyptic takes,' Cook says. 'Winemakers are becoming more interested and aware of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and a lot of them are really concerned. They are seeing things they haven't seen before, with storms and heat waves. But what you do about it is a complicated thing.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Geoff Kruth, the president of GuildSomm, an international organization for sommeliers, says- 'there are dozens of human decisions " rootstocks, trellising, timing of vineyard work, etc. " that have significant impacts on-how a vine reacts to a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many wine industry experts have pointed to increased ripeness in grapes and higher alcohol levels as indications of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'The real reason wines got riper is that people wanted them to get riper. Generally, if you look at wines from the 2000s, you see more sugar in the grapes and more alcohol in the wines,' Kruth says. 'People have been quick to associate this with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , when in reality it was conscious human decisions. Now you see the alcohols are dropping. It's a consumer trend. The grower and winemaker have a strong hand in all of these things.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mike Heny, a longtime Virginia winemaker who makes wine for 15 vineyards in the state,-points to steps thatalready have been taken around the world to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'It's a multipronged approach,' Henry says. 'In Napa, people are removing the primary grape cluster so the secondary one is the one that gets turned into wine so you can push off ripening, which allows for lower potential alcohol and greater physiological maturity so you get greater flavors. People are leaving a bit more canopy, carrying a bigger fruit crop to delay ripening, picking earlier.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Champagne is looking at England as a new venue for high-quality sparkling wines. In July, Bordeaux allowed a number of new grapes to be planted, he says. It was previously illegal to plant anything but the five main historic grapes. And in Italy, a new VCR program is working to breed traditional vinifera grapes like merlot with hybrids that are hardier and exhibit more resistance.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The question for Heny and other winemakers is whether consumers will be amenable to these 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'A mutt is better than a purebred when the going gets tough,' Heny says. 'But people aren't into drinking the mutt wines as much. At the end of the day, we have to make wines that people love.'
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 laura.reiley@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0February 2, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nurses emerge as critical voice in activism over climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 23, 2019 Monday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0METRO; Pg. B03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0939 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Rebecca Tan
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Among nurses, says Erica Jones, there is an unspoken rule to "stay in your lane."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As a nursing student, Jones heard warnings from professors not to "be political" and to focus on caregiving. She said she took the advice seriously. It will be at the forefront of her mind Monday, when she and dozens of other nurses administer blood pressure tests on the streets of downtown Washington, joining hundreds of activists planning to "Shut Down DC" in the name of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activism.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's a little scary, for sure," said Jones, 31, who works in the burn and trauma unit at the MedStar Washington Hospital Center in Northwest Washington and has not participated in political action of this sort before. "But it's hard with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It's harder and harder to avoid taking a stand."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nurses like Jones are mobilizing in growing numbers, joining a movement led in large part by youth activists.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Apart from students and scientists, organizers say, health-care workers - specifically, nurses - are anticipated to have the strongest presence at major 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  rallies being held nationwide over the next few days. In addition to joining the action Monday, delegations of nurses attended protests Friday in New York and Washington.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some say they are driven to act by what they see in their clinics; others, by brushes with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  disaster or medical mission trips. Those interviewed last week said they have carefully weighed their decisions to join the picket line.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nursing was ranked in Gallup's annual ethics survey as the most trusted profession in the country for 17 consecutive years. It is a reputation they know could be at risk in certain communities if they openly support efforts to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But advocates say this reputation also places nurses in a unique position to drive the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  movement forward.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They are incredibly credible voices that span all political spectrums," said Sara Shor, the associate director of U.S. campaigns at the global environmental group 350.org.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Groups of nurses have previously advocated for   environmental issues.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2008, while Sen. James M. Inhofe (Okla.), the top Republican on the Committee on Environment and Public Works, was calling global warming "a hoax," the American Nurses Association published a resolution declaring that "the challenges we face as a result of global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are unprecedented in human history."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Five years later, nurses in San Francisco led hundreds of people across the Golden Gate Bridge to protest the Keystone XL pipeline connecting Canada and the United States.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But starting in late 2017 - with Hurricane Maria, some say - there has been a new, broad-based surge of interest in the issue within the profession.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Katie Huffling, the executive director of the Alliance of Nurses for Healthy Environments, said the organization has seen an uptick in nurses attending events and lectures on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nella Pineda-Marcon, a nurse at Mount Sinai-St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan, was among the founding members of the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Justice and Disaster Relief Committee at the New York State Nurses Association. For years, she said, the committee struggled to recruit members. Now, nurses across the state email asking how they can join.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jones said this summer - the warmest on record for the Northern Hemisphere - was the first time she saw patients suffer burns after coming into contact with the sidewalk. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fellow D.C. nurse Amanda Trebach, 33, said she has noticed an increase in heat-related illnesses, and Kristen Brown, an intensive-care unit nurse based in Lanham, Md., reported more patients coming in for chronic respiratory diseases.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I hadn't connected the dots until now," said Brown, 32, who is marching for the first time on Friday, joining other nurses in an event led by 16-year-old Swedish 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activist Greta Thunberg.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Once you become more aware of the problem," Jones said, "it's hard, as a person who cares about other people, to ignore it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2012, when Hurricane Sandy hit the coastal Far Rockaway neighborhood in Queens, nurses at St. John's Episcopal Hospital took turns sleeping in the break room while working 18-hour shifts, recalled Iona Folkes, an emergency room nurse and member of health-care union 1199SEIU.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Suddenly, they could make a connection between their lunchtime view of the Atlantic Ocean and what the talking heads on television were saying about rising sea levels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There was the understanding that this directly can affect me," Folkes said. "It's like, okay, it's serious, we really have to be concerned."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In response to student demands at the University of Minnesota's nursing school, all faculty have been asked to incorporate 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  into their curriculums, said professor Teddie Potter.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To Potter, who has served as the faculty lead on the initiative, the move makes sense. Nurses are used to caring for patients in "multi-system failure," in which different biological systems malfunction simultaneously, she said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is part of our profession. We look at mobility, we look at nutrition, we are big-systems thinkers," she added. "Well, it happens right now that the earth is in multi-system failure."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But longtime 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  advocates within the profession say not everyone is on board. Many nurses struggle to carve out time for dedicated political action. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although there is a consensus among nurses that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a problem, as in other science-based professions, some still believe their role is by the bedside, not in the streets, Huffling said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It takes a lot for us to want to step out of our role and be more political," Jones said. "So if we are, people should listen."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 rebecca.tan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 23, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Democrats divided over climate change panel's revival
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 28, 2018 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01450 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Elise Viebeck;David Weigel
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 One week after House Democrats triumphed in the election, Rep. Nancy Pelosi extended her hand to the party's energized left wing by promising to revive the select committee on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The move thrilled activists who, joined by incoming Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, had protested in Pelosi's office that day. And word of reconstituting the panel, which was revered among Democrats for helping produce the 2009 cap-and-trade bill, was greeted as a sign of the party's commitment to aggressive 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action in the next Congress.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the committee will not have authority to approve legislation and is not expected to have subpoena power - unlike its 2007 version. The committee's influence will be limited by Republican control of the Senate and President Trump's rejection of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science. While Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) has called on the committee to draft a "Green New Deal" to get the country off fossil fuels by 2030, its work may not carry weight with the powerful standing committees in the House.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The coming battle will test liberals' clout, as tensions between the activist left and the Democratic establishment underscore the ideological and strategic rifts that will affect the party ahead of the 2020 presidential primary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We should have a robust debate of ideas . . . then we figure out how to come to a consensus so that we are effective and are able in 2020 to defeat Donald Trump," said Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.). "The worst thing we could do is stifle a very vigorous debate because of a deference to protocol or precedent."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Congressional Democrats are united on the need to combat man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but there is debate over what solutions to pursue and how aggressively in an era of divided government.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Pelosi, poised to become the next House speaker, and other party leaders have talked about addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as part of an infrastructure reform package that could earn backing from Trump; liberals want nothing less than the Green New Deal, a restructuring of the economy often compared to the Marshall Plan that rebuilt Europe after World War II. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Support for the Green New Deal is showing signs of becoming a liberal litmus test among Democrats who may run for president. Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) recently endorsed it, joining Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rising support for this approach could shape the work of the House's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  panel. Nearly 40 House Democrats agree that the committee should focus its efforts on making the Green New Deal a reality. A proposal from Ocasio-Cortez and the youth-driven Sunrise Movement sets a March 2020 deadline for the panel to come up with legislation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rep. Kathy Castor (D-Fla.), a longtime ally of environmentalists, told E&E News last week that Pelosi (Calif.) asked her to consider leading the select panel but that the news was not "official quite yet."  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  On advocates for the Green New Deal, she told E&E News: "I think they have some terrific ideas . . . but that's not going to be our sole focus."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activists expressed disappointment. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 "Without a mandate to create a plan and a requirement that its members don't take fossil fuel money, we are deeply concerned that this committee will be just another of the many committees we've seen failing our generation our entire lives," said Varshini Prakash, the Sunrise Movement's spokeswoman. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The push reflects the increasing power and visibility of liberals on Capitol Hill. Poised to be the largest of the values-based caucuses next year, the Congressional Progressive Caucus has already received a jolt of energy from members such as Ocasio-Cortez, whose political celebrity and regular posts to her 1.1 million Instagram followers have earned her clout and attention unheard of for an incoming member of Congress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A number of lawmakers, including Khanna and Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), who co-chairs the caucus, have said they encouraged Ocasio-Cortez to seek a leadership position on the select panel.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Major overhaul bills are typically the work of standing committees, which are a mainstay of the legislative process and have the knowledge and strategic expertise that new panels sometimes lack. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activists have said they have been dealt a setback on that front, after Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.), who is a strong proponent of the coal industry, won the party's top spot on the Senate's Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Unlike other soon-to-be standing committee chairmen, Rep. Ra\'c3\'bal M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) said he "didn't have a great deal of angst" about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  panel.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's another platform to really talk about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and really enter it back into the dialogue for this country," said Grijalva, who will lead the House Natural Resources Committee in January.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The committees have still moved to defend their turf on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issues. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 After Pelosi said she would resurrect the select panel, Grijalva joined incoming chairmen on the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Science, Space and Technology Committee to announce they will hold two days of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  hearings in early 2019. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. (D-N.J.), who will lead Energy and Commerce in January, has also announced plans to investigate the Trump administration's sweeping rollback of environmental regulations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Asked about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  panel, Pallone has pushed back on the notion that the standing committees would take a more deferential approach. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't want to prejudge what we are going to do other than to say that we intend to be very aggressive about it and the progressives will be very happy," he said last month on Capitol Hill. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the New Jersey Democrat has not backed the Green New Deal. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The goal of trying to reduce fossil fuels and get to a carbon-neutral economy is important and something that I agree with. The question is how long it takes to do that," he said recently, according to the Asbury Park Press. "The Green New Deal says you can do it in 10 years. I don't know if that's technologically feasible . . . Beyond that, it's probably not politically feasible."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  The back-and-forth recalls 2007, when Pelosi created the original 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  panel and appointed now-Sen. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) as chairman. With Democrats in control of the House and Senate, that panel had clout from the beginning, working to lay the foundation for legislation that could pass both chambers within two years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Suspicious leaders of the standing committees worked to limit its legislative powers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We should probably name it the committee on world travel and junkets," then-Rep. John D. Dingell (D-Mich.), who was chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said in 2007. "We're just empowering a bunch of enthusiastic amateurs to go around and make speeches and make commitments that will be very difficult to honor."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The panel contributed work to major legislation, including the cap-and-trade bill, which mandated an 83 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The measure was approved by the House but never passed the Senate.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The latest 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science points to the high stakes facing today's lawmakers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In October, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  warned that "unprecedented" international efforts to cut carbon emissions are required in the next dozen years to keep 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to moderate levels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Trump administration has taken the opposite approach, cutting regulation even while forecasting a disastrous 7-degree rise in global temperatures by the end of this century. Trump administration officials have promoted fossil fuels on the international stage while Trump himself has expressed doubts that human activity has contributed to warming temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "A lot of people like myself, we have very high levels of intelligence, but we're not necessarily such believers," Trump said in November. "As to whether it's man-made and whether the effects that you're talking about are there, I don't see it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The limitations of the select committee are already coming into focus, including its expected lack of subpoena power.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Prakash called this an "insult to the thousands of young people across the country who have been calling on the Democratic Party leadership to have the courage to stand up to fossil fuel billionaires." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The Democratic Party establishment never misses an opportunity to miss an opportunity," she said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, who served on the original committee, said it was a worthy project despite its lack of legislative authority.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It engaged the passions and creativity of legislators, some of who might be on the standing committees," Inslee said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 elise.viebeck@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 david.weigel@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Juliet Eilperin and Dino Grandoni contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 28, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fire tornadoes: Australia's perfect climate-change storm
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 14, 2020 Tuesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A14
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01357 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Andrew Freedman;Sarah Kaplan
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Virginia Young knew the fires were coming. As an Australian forest expert, she had contributed to research predicting longer and more-severe bush-fire seasons as the world warms.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But even she was taken aback by the sheer scale of the blazes that have imperiled much of the country " including her own home.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Now she worries Australia is on the brink of a 'major ecological shift.' 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has pushed natural phenomena, such as wildfires, to mutate into more disastrous and deadly versions of themselves.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Temperatures are soaring to heights scientists did not expect to see for decades. Landscapes that are usually resistant to fire " including rainforests home to rare, vulnerable species " are going up in flames.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The blazes are so big they generate their own hellish weather.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fire tornadoes, formed when spinning winds generate a massive rotating column of fire, ash, vapor and debris, are impossible to control. A volunteer firefighter in New South Wales was killed on Dec.-30 when one of these twisters overturned his truck.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Ember attacks' occur when violent winds around wildfires pick up burning pieces of debris and carry them aloft, dropping them in a flammable spot where they start another blaze.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fire whirls " short-lived swirling vortices of ash, dust and flame that are generated when updrafts of hot air become twisted as they rise along the leading edge of a forest fire, have been reported by witnesses. These whirls behave unpredictably " so much so they are sometimes called 'devils' " and they can contribute to ember attacks, said Janice Coen, a project scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Colorado.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The heat from Australia's blazes has fueled fire-generated thunderstorms from what are known as pyrocumulonimbus clouds. These mushroom-shaped clouds act as chimneys, venting heat and sucking in surrounding air to intensify fires, making their behavior more unpredictable and unstoppable.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Neil Lareau, a meteorologist at the University of Nevada at Reno, said he has never seen pyrocumulonimbus clouds on such a large scale.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A weather station in New South Wales recorded an air temperature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit as pyrocumulonimbus clouds advanced. That is roughly as hot as most saunas, though the number cannot be verified, because the instruments were not designed to work at such high temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In some spots, fires have restarted in areas that have already burned, said William Moomaw, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at Tufts University in Massachusetts. 'Basically, you've created a lot of charcoal' in burned forests, he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Megafires, where two wildfires converge into one massive inferno, have also been reported.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And they are nowhere close to dying out.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'This is a real wake-up call,' not just for Australia, but for the world, said Nerilie Abram, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at Australia National University in Canberra. 'We need to be looking at this and saying, 'How much worse do we want to let this get?' '
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The scale of this fire season is unprecedented, Australia's Bureau of Meteorology said last week. Across the continent, 15-million acres of forest and farmland have been scorched. At least 25 people have been killed and a billion animals harmed. The fires in New South Wales are the largest in state history and have burned more area than has been ever been documented in eastern Australia.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The disaster is the result of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  combined with an unlucky confluence of weather extremes. Australia has never been as hot and dry at the same time as it has been during the spring and summer of 2019 and 2020.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In December, Australia broke its high-temperature record twice in two days. A weather station in the Nullarbor, a desert region along the southeast coast, reported a high of 49.9 degrees Celsius, or 121.8 Fahrenheit, a national record for that month.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The country's scale for measuring fire danger, known as the accumulated forest-fire danger index, was the highest on record in December. That means most of the country had turned into a tinderbox.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Without 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , these scorching highs would not have been possible, according to Andrew King, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at the University of Melbourne specializing in extreme events. Even with global warming, he was 'astonished' to witness them.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'The temperatures we're experiencing this summer I think many scientists didn't expect to see for several decades yet,' he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 By the end of December, the average temperature across the continent was 5.8 degrees Fahrenheit above the norm.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Australia's record-setting heat and drought were caused by several factors.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 From the west, a seesaw circulation pattern known as the Indian Ocean Dipole caused air to sink over Australia, heating and drying the continent.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Meanwhile, thousands of miles away and about 10 miles up, in the thin, frigid slice of the atmosphere on top of the South Pole, something shifted.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In an event that is unprecedented in 40 years of record-keeping, temperatures over Antarctica rose rapidly, causing the polar vortex over the Southern Hemisphere to break down and even reverse direction. This had cascading effects on weather patterns: The westerly winds that blow across the Southern Ocean shifted northward. Cold fronts moved across Australia, bringing intense wind but little rain.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These factors 'all came together to create a really bad situation,' said Amy Butler, a researcher at the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences in Colorado.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Scientists say the dramatic events unfolding in Australia illustrate the kinds of disasters that will soon confront the rest of the world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Australia: you have just experienced the future,' tweeted Ed Hawkins, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at the University of Reading in England.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The island continent is the hottest inhabited continent, and its unique geography means it is 'highly exposed' to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone 's influence, said Brendan Mackey, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at Griffith University in Queensland. It will not take much warming to push life there from a comfortable existence to the edge of extinction, he said, making it something of a bellwether for the warming world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Though the planet has experienced, on average, 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit of warming since preindustrial times, Australia in 2019 was 2.7 degrees warmer than average.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And those are just averages, Australia National University's Abram pointed out.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'We tend to have this idea that our 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is gradually warming and these types of impacts will be gradual . . . but the Earth system doesn't work like that,' Abram said. 'There's no reason to expect that a gradual increase in temperature will contribute to a gradual increase in the types of fires we're having to fight.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'It's quite scary,' she added.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 By turning forests that once absorbed carbon into flaming carbon sources, the wildfires are contributing to the very problem that makes them more likely. Satellite observations suggest that emissions from the fires may be on par with what Australia produces annually by burning fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The weeks of living under fire's unrelenting threat has exhausted Young, the forest expert. Like her neighbors in her coastal village of South Durras in New South Wales, she keeps an emergency kit packed and has picked out a spot on the beach, tucked under a cliff, where she and her husband might hide if the inferno overtakes them.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In early January, after forecasters predicted particularly dangerous fire weather, the couple evacuated. The fires have been advancing so quickly " often as fast as 40 mph " that waiting to see flames was not an option.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When they returned two days later, 'my house was still standing,' said Young, the head of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  program at the Australian Rainforest Conservation Society. 'The luck of three wind 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , quite literally.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But better than most people, Young knows the danger is far from over. In the past, January and February have been the hottest months in southeast Australia. As 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  advances, the future will probably be even worse.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'We are heading off into completely unknown territory,' Young said. 'Many more extreme or catastrophic days lie ahead.'
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 andrew.freedman@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sarah.kaplan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 14, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 How ignoring climate change could sink the U.S. economy
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 27, 2014 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2014 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01351 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Robert E. Rubin
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Good economic decisions require good data. And to get good data, we must account for all relevant variables. But we're not doing this when it comes to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - and that means we're making decisions based on a flawed picture of future risks. While we can't define future 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risks with precision, they should be included in economic policy, fiscal and business decisions because of their potential magnitude.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The scientific community is all but unanimous  in its agreement that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a serious threat. According to Gallup, nearly 60 percent  of Americans believe that global warming is caused by human activity. Still, for many people, the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  seem like a future problem - something that falls by the wayside as we tackle what seem like more immediate crises.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a present danger. The buildup of greenhouse gases is cumulative and irreversible; the pollutants we are now emitting will remain in the atmosphere for hundreds of years. So what we do each day will affect us and the planet for centuries. Damage resulting from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  cuts across almost every aspect of life: public health, extreme weather, the economy and so much else.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What we already know is frightening, but what we don't know is more frightening still. For example, we know that melting polar ice sheets will cause sea levels to rise, but we don't know how negative feedback loops will accelerate the process. As polar ice melts, the oceans absorb more heat, which causes more ice to melt. And the polar ice sheets have already started to melt.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When it comes to the economy, much of the debate about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - and reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that are fueling it - is framed as a trade-off between environmental protection and economic prosperity. Many people argue that moving away from fossil fuels and reducing carbon emissions will impede economic growth, hurt business and hamper job creation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But from an economic perspective, that's precisely the wrong way to look at it. The real question should be: What is the cost of inaction? In my view - and in the view of a growing group of business people, economists, and other financial and market experts - the cost of inaction over the long term is far greater than the cost of action.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I recently participated in a bipartisan effort to measure the economic risks of unchecked 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the United States. We commissioned an independent analysis, led by a highly respected group of economists and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists, and our inaugural report, "Risky Business," was released in June. The report's conclusions demonstrated the significant harm that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is causing now and that will almost certainly be far more severe in the future - to the agricultural, energy and coastal-property sectors, as well as to public health and labor productivity more generally.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 By 2050, for example, between $48 billion and $68 billion worth of current property in Louisiana and Florida is likely to be at risk of flooding because it will be below sea level. And that's just a baseline estimate; there are other scenarios that could be catastrophic.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Then, of course, there is the unpredictable damage from superstorms yet to come. Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Sandy caused a combined $193 billion in economic losses; the congressional aid packages that followed both storms cost more than $122 billion. We can't attribute all the damage caused by Katrina and Sandy to global warming, but we know that rising sea levels led to significantly worse surges, and that the frequency and intensity of superstorms are almost certain to increase  if global warming persists. It's highly likely that as 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  continues, the damage will not  increase on a straight line. Instead, it will increase on an upward-sloping curve, that could become catastrophically steep, because of negative feedback loops and other factors.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And dramatically rising temperatures in much of the country will make it far too hot for people to work outside during parts of the day for several months each year - reducing employment and economic output, and causing as many as 65,200 additional heat-related deaths every year. That's almost twice as many deaths as those caused by motor vehicle accidents in 2012.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The U.S. economy faces enormous risks from unmitigated 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But the metrics we currently use to measure economic growth, fiscal prospects and business earnings do not incorporate these risks. If we are going to have a well-informed and accurate debate about the economic costs of action vs. inaction, the public and private sectors need metrics that honestly reflect 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related risk.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 First, future federal spending to deal with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is likely to be enormous and should be included in fiscal projections, whether in existing estimates or in additional estimates that include 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . If nothing is done to prevent 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related crises, the federal government will be forced to deal with them later - from property losses to public health crises to emergency aid.  These huge risks are not currently in official future estimates or federal budget plans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To cover those costs, we will have to increase the deficit; raise taxes; or significantly cut spending on defense, our social safety net, and public investment including infrastructure, education and basic research. Which means that, whatever your public policy views, whether you care about our national debt and deficits, our tax rates, or government investment in everything from national security to job creation, you should care about the costs of coping with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related damage. By forcing policymakers to recognize likely future expenditures - and the trade-offs required to make them - we may increase the political appetite for policy 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  now.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Second, investors should demand that companies disclose their exposure to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risks, including the impact that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could have on their businesses and assets, the value of their assets that could be stranded by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and the costs they may someday incur to address their carbon emissions. Former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg, who was a co-chair of the "Risky Business" report, and former Securities and Exchange Commission chairwoman Mary Schapiro are leading an effort to encourage businesses to incorporate such reporting into their quarterly disclosures, but it is still considered optional by the SEC. I believe that such disclosures should be considered material and mandated by the SEC, not just requested by investors. If companies were required to highlight their exposure to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related risks, it would 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  investor behavior, which in turn would prod those companies to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  their behavior.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Third, I believe that gross domestic product - the current standard measure of national economic health - is inadequate and misleading, because it fails to account for significant externalities, beginning with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Others might think we should incorporate additional externalities beyond 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts, and that's a good discussion to have. But we should start with a parallel GDP that incorporates the impact of greenhouse gas emissions. Without that, we are using an incomplete measure of economic output to inform policy decisions. Currently, GDP simply reflects the goods and services produced by our economy. However, it does not account for the present and future damage resulting from the emissions involved in producing those goods and services. And bad data leads to bad policy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We do not face a choice between protecting our environment or protecting our economy. We face a choice between protecting our economy by protecting our environment - or allowing environmental havoc to create economic havoc. And a major step toward 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the debate is to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the way we measure the health of our economy, our fiscal conditions, and the health of individual companies and businesses to better reflect the world as it will be.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 outlook@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Read more from Outlook and follow our updates on Facebook and Twitter.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 27, 2014
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cancun climate-change summit hinges on U.S.-China transparency issues Cancun climate-change summit hinges on U.S.-China transparency issues
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 10, 2010 Friday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2010 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A11
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0395 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0- Darryl Fears
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 China and the United States, the reigning world heavyweight champions among carbon emissions polluters, have wrestled over a single complicated issue for about a week at the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone               meeting in Cancun, Mexico. The outcome, some say, could determine the success or failure of the two-week-long gathering that ends Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What is the argument about?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 They've got major trust issues. Nations agreed long ago to prove that they are lowering their carbon emissions through a process called Measurement, Reporting and Verification (MRV). But the United States is worried that nations could fudge their reports and proposed to take MRV a step further by allowing outside observers into countries to scrub them. China balked, saying it could inadvertently hand over sensitive data to foreigners. Brazil, South Africa and India were also cool to the U.S. proposal.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Are they making progress?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There are hopeful signs. India has embraced transparency in Cancun and circulated a strategy called International Consultation and Analysis (ICA) that would allow outside observation. India is a member of a bloc of developing nations that includes Brazil, South Africa and China, all big polluters. If the others accept the ICA terms, China would be isolated.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Can this issue really make or break the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  talks?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The fight over transparency distracts from other important issues. For example, delegates expected to come up with a way to honor an earlier commitment by rich nations to pay $30 billion a year to poor nations for three years, to transfer green technology to poor countries, to provide financial and other incentives to poor countries to keep them from ripping out forests that soak up carbons, and to help them respond to droughts, floods and other effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - problems that developed countries largely helped create. Also, the United States has made it clear that unless the transparency issue gets resolved, it won't allow any other part of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  deal to move forward.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 How much time is left?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The summit ends Friday. The last day typically means the beginning of marathon meetings that stretch into Saturday as sleep-deprived ministers address issues that went begging. In Copenhagen, talks went past the Friday deadline and flights out of the city were delayed until Sunday. That didn't mean that every issue got resolved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - Darryl Fears
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 10, 2010
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hard Data on Climate Change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 27, 2009 Monday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0415 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 George F. Will once again ignored scientific evidence when he claimed that there has been no global warming over the past decade ["
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Fixers' Hard Sell," 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 op-ed
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , July 23].
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Earth's average temperature rises and falls in large part because of multiyear ocean cycles, such as El Ni\'c3\'b1o and La Ni\'c3\'b1a. At the same time, human-induced global warming has been steadily pushing average temperatures higher. Because of the natural ocean cycles, 1998 was a warm year. Global warming made it even hotter. Conversely, 2008 was a cooler year, but global warming made it less cool.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That said, there are plenty of obvious signs of global warming over the past decade, including shrinking Arctic summer sea ice. In 2007, the region's sea ice was at an all-time low since satellite observations began. Last year marked the second-lowest year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 All corners of America are already experiencing the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Mr. Will should take a look at the federal government's recent report "Global 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Impacts in the United States" to find out the facts.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 BRENDA EKWURZEL
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Washington
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer is a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist with the Union of Concerned Scientists.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 --
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 George F. Will couldn't be further off base with his continually baffling approach to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Should we expect to see a piece from him this week arguing that Earth is flat?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 First and foremost, development need not be sacrificed in the name of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . In 2008, the World Bank's Independent Evaluation Group found that there is no significant trade-off between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  mitigation and energy access for the world's poorest. The provision of basic electricity services for the world's unconnected households would add only a third of one percentage point to global greenhouse gas emissions!
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The argument for renewable energy is not an attack on economic growth; it's a plea for responsible and sustainable development.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As for the "no one else cares about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  so why should we" case, the United States  has an important role to play as a leader -- the last eight years of stalled 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiations are the result of an administration that refused to play the part.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Furthermore, as a World Bank donor country, the United States is able to push the bank to allocate its sizable resources to renewables in place of coal.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 REBECCA HARRIS
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Washington
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer is information services coordinator for the Bank Information Center, which advocates for public accountability at the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 27, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate change reports are suddenly hot
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 29, 2017 Sunday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0491 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Sarah Kaplan
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Traffic to federal websites soars under new administration
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The events of the past week were worrying to advocates of government action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , with the removal of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  priorities from the White House website and the order to freeze all Environmental Protection Agency contracts following the inauguration of a president who has said he is "not a big believer" in the fact that humans have played a role in 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Earth's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But these events have also been very good for website traffic.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 According to data from analytics.usa.gov, which tracks Web traffic on all dot-gov websites, several pages related to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  have been extremely popular in the week since President Trump's inauguration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On Friday, a National Park Service report about the agency's "Cultural Resources 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Strategy" was the most downloaded document from a government website. Thousands more people wanted to download that document than those who downloaded the form to apply for passport renewal or any of the Internal Revenue Service documents required to file tax returns.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the spring, Jonathan Jarvis, who was then the Park Service's director, spoke with The Washington Post about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  threat to parks. "A lot of our big, national parks are in extreme environments - high elevation, desert, Alaska, coastline," he said. "These are the places that we're already seeing the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and they're going to be accelerated in these environments, with sea level rise, storm surge, thermokarsting" - when permafrost thaws - "in the Arctic, fires in the Sierra, drought all over. It's going to upset the paradigm upon which we've been managing for 100 years. That's going to be a big challenge, and, frankly, we haven't figured it out."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strategy report outlines how the Park Service aims to address the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  conditions on archaeological sites, historic buildings, museum collections, sacred landscapes and other cultural resources. It was downloaded 29,583 times Thursday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Over at EPA.gov, nine of the top-10 downloads were related to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . On Thursday alone, 3,036 people downloaded the agency's 2016 report on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  indicators, which lists evidence for global warming and provides ways to track its effects on the planet.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 An EPA contractor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the worker was not authorized to discuss the matter, said the page  EPA.gov/climatechange  had a 2,700 percent increase in visitors in the first five days after the inauguration, as compared with the five days before. The agency's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  research page had a 500 percent increase in visitors.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Trump administration had planned to scrub these 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  pages from the EPA's website, an EPA employee told The Post. But career staffers pushed back against the plan, and the political appointees overseeing the agency backed away from it.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sarah.kaplan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 29, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Students challenge parents' climate-change skepticism
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 4, 2017 Sunday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A06
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01561 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Sarah Kaplan
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Hands-on course in Idaho inspiring budding environmentalists
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 COEUR d'ALENE, Idaho - Jakob Namson peered up at the towering ponderosa pine before him. He looked at his notebook, which was full of calculations scribbled in pencil. Then he looked back at the pine. If his math was right - and it nearly always is - he would need to plant 36 trees just like this one to offset the 831 pounds of carbon dioxide that his drive to school emits each year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Namson, 17, gazed around at his classmates, who were all examining their own pines in northern Idaho's Farragut State Park. He considered the 76 people in this grove, the 49,000 people in his home town of Coeur d'Alene, the millions of people in the United States driving billions of miles a year - and approached his teacher, Jamie Esler, with a solemn look on his face.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I think I'm beginning to understand the enormity of the problem," the teenager said - a revelation that Esler later described as "one of the most inspirational moments of my entire career."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The phrase "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " evokes deep skepticism in northern Idaho. Fewer than half of adults in Kootenai County think that human activities contribute to global warming, surveys show. In February, the state legislature urged the state board of education to rewrite the science curriculum to eliminate what one lawmaker called "an over emphasis on human caused factors."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On Thursday, President Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from a landmark global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement touched off a new round of combustible debate. But here in Idaho, Esler has managed to nurture a growing cadre of budding environmentalists by eschewing politics and focusing on tangible 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the natural landscape, 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that affect the crystalline water, the ancient trees, the once-abundant snow.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Esler is kind of a genius," said Annika Jacobson, 17. "He teaches things in a way that doesn't mold your brain to his, so you almost don't notice that you're learning all these things. Until someone on the street says they don't believe in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and then you're like, 'Wait a minute,' and you have all these stats and graphs and factual things."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 An athletic 32-year-old in a down vest and a ponytail, Esler has been teaching science in Idaho for almost a decade, helping establish his school's Outdoor Studies Program, a year-long interdisciplinary program for juniors.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2014, he was named Idaho's Teacher of the Year. He finds the state's skepticism about human-caused 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  ironic, he says, because the effects are increasingly evident here.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Two years ago, the devastating drought that hit most of the West sparked huge wildfires. Last summer, warmer weather contributed to an algae bloom in Fernan Lake, making the local spot too toxic for swimming. Lately, even Esler's youngest students remark on the number of winter days when the city gets rain instead of snow.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Esler prods students to investigate and reach their own conclusions about people's impact on the environment. Instead of lecturing about the perils of warmer winters, he takes his class into the surrounding Bitterroot Mountains to measure declining snowpack. Instead of telling them to use energy-efficient LED bulbs, he has them test the efficiency of four varieties of lightbulbs and then write about which they prefer and why.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the trip to Farragut State Park, students take pencil-thin core samples from their trees. They count the rings to get each sampled tree's age, then do some math to determine how much carbon the tree pulls out of the atmosphere through photosynthesis.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The teenagers marveled at the delicate rings on their samples. One girl breathed in the spicy pine scent and said, "Whoa, it's like Bath and Body Works but better."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We could do this in the classroom," Esler said. "I could just give them the numbers and show them a PowerPoint. But now I have kids smelling the inside of a tree. That's a tangible connection. . . . I hope it makes them think about what happens to that carbon when it comes out of their tail pipe."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Outdoor Studies Program has 76 energetic students who are conversant in subjects such as "eutrophication" and "water snow equivalency" and will earnestly say that they "want to save the world."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 After learning about the persistence of plastic in the environment, Lenna Reardon talked her boss at the local ice cream parlor into installing a recycling bin. Connor Brooks's family now composts. Jordan Lo, the vice president of the Environmental Club, is on a crusade to get his classmates to ditch bottled water for reusable containers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jacobson helped organize an "environmental health week" on campus this spring. "Most kids here honestly don't really believe in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  because their parents don't," she said. Even her boyfriend was skeptical. "What's so important about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  literacy?" he asked her.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jacobson made a face. When she encounters this attitude, she said, "You really just have to hit them with facts."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And what are those facts?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Her eyes lit up.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Do you want to see a graph?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jacobson whipped out her cellphone and pulled up a NASA graph of global temperature records going back hundreds of thousands of years. With her pinkie, she traced the zigzagging line through the centuries, then pointed to where it shoots up sharply in the 1950s - right when humans started adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere at a perilously fast rate.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Once you see it," she said, "it's really hard to deny."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Most of Esler's students say they rarely thought about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  before taking his class. Craig Cooper, a state water researcher who leads a local 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action group, acknowledges that outreach is a problem.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The single biggest failure of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  movement is that it hasn't done a good enough job building relationships," Cooper said. To most people, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is "a political argument they don't want to get into."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's true for Chuck Morris, 53. In the 13 years he's been hunting and hiking in Idaho, the machinist has seen winters shortening and summers drying out. He believes that humans play a role in the 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But he is put off by the way scientists "stand up there and speak to you in jargon." And he is skeptical of politicians who propose regulations to address it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Basically, the opinion I drew on it is: It's there, but I can't find anything that shows it's getting worse, really," Morris said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Since Morris's daughter Sarah joined Esler's class, father and daughter have been having what he calls "discussions" - and what she calls "arguments" - about the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's kind of scary" to challenge a parent, she said, "but he's respecting it."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "She suggests things, and I don't blow it off," Morris agreed, adding that he wants to encourage his daughter in her favorite class. "Who knows? Maybe Sarah gets looking into [an environmental problem] and she comes up with the solution."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The ongoing debate over the state's public school science standards has raised awareness of the issue. In February, the legislature struck five paragraphs related to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and urged the standards committee to rewrite them. The standards help determine what appears in public school textbooks, statewide texts and teacher training materials.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was the third time in three years the section on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  had been scrutinized. Lawmakers decided that the standards should be "more balanced between human and natural causes," state Rep. Ryan Kerby (R) wrote in an email to The Washington Post.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Esler serves on Idaho's science standards committee. Ultimately, the group offered minor 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , which will go before the board of education in August. A paragraph that said, "Human activities have altered the biosphere, sometimes damaging or destroying natural habitats and causing the extinction of other species," now reads: "Human activities can have consequences (positive and negative) on the biosphere, sometimes altering natural habitats and causing the extinction of other species." A line that instructed teachers to emphasize the major role that human activities play in causing the rise in global temperature was deleted.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's essentially the same science worded in a way that may be received as less abrasive," Esler said. "The bulk of our work" was figuring out "how do we take the same science and use the English language to state it without triggering defensive, dismissive reactions?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Esler has received teacher training through the University of Washington, NASA and the National Science Foundation (NSF). Many of the projects in which his students participate rely on federal education funds. Such support could be increasingly scarce: Trump's 2018 budget request would eliminate the NASA education office and cut funding for the NSF by more than 10 percent.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Back among the ponderosa pines at Farragut State Park, Esler and his students ate lunch and discussed the results of their experiment.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Do you feel like there's something you can do after this lab?" Esler asked. "Yes, yell at my parents," one student responded. There was a wave of laughter. "Plant more trees!" shouted another. "Do we even have space on Earth to plant that many trees?" wondered a third.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Namson remained quiet, considering the gravity of the issue. "Mr. Esler basically just said he agreed with me," Namson recalled later. But his teacher couldn't tell him what to do about it. That was up to him.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sarah.kaplan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 4, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A climate plan for climate-change deniers
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 14, 2010 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2010 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01279 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Meg Bostrom by Meg Bostrom
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In the global-warming debate, scientists are, admirably, still trying to save the day. Last week, the American Geophysical Union announced plans to mobilize about 700 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists in an effort to improve the accuracy of media coverage and public understanding of their field. Separately, a smaller group of scientists organized by John Abraham of the University of St. Thomas in Minnesota said it was putting together a  "rapid response team" to bring accurate 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science to public debates.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the face of it, such efforts certainly make sense. The scientists hope, not unreasonably, to bring more attention to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis. More crucially, they seek to halt the slide in public opinion on the issue, with recent polls finding Americans' belief in the evidence for global warming  on the decline, along with their view of the need for immediate action to slow 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . And it's true that science education, when done well, may help accomplish these goals.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But will it lead to meaningful policy? Or will this latest round of efforts instead result in another spate of news stories about scary end-of-the-world scenarios, another series of debates over whether global-warming science is a hoax and more wasted time - time we don't have?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There is good reason to think that those who are worried about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  would make greater progress - especially among Republicans, who profess increasing skepticism about warming - if they focused less on arguing the scientific reality and more on building support for specific solutions that all sides can agree on.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The first problem with focusing on the science debate is that the spectacle of dueling scientists confuses people. We have already seen this story unfold in the media: Two opposing sides, given similar exposure, argue about complexities that most Americans feel they have little ability to assess. Instead of focusing on the causes of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in simple terms that people can grasp and act upon, it is all too easy for scientists to get trapped in a debate with skeptics about whether they can prove that warming is real and how they can show definitively that its effects are imminent. Faced with this sparring, it becomes fairly easy for the average person to dismiss 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as an open question and cross it off the list of things they need to worry about.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Which brings us to a related problem: People are already overwhelmed with worries about unemployment, economic insecurity, federal debt and even terrorism. We should not expect them to start worrying about whether the Earth is warmer, glaciers are melting, or floods and droughts will become more common. A global warming crisis simply can't compete with the long list of crises average Americans already face.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Finally, the global warming debate increasingly turns more on political belief than on scientific fact. Until relatively recently, environmental issues were largely nonpartisan. Republican presidents such as Richard Nixon have historically achieved significant environmental gains, and voters across party lines used to express fairly equal levels of support for environmental protections.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But while some environmental priorities continue to be shared across the political spectrum, global warming is not one of them. Surveys show a sharp and increasing political divide on a range of beliefs involving 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , with tea party conservatives voicing the greatest skepticism. Mention "global warming" in a room full of average Americans, as I have done on several occasions, and you will find that they quickly align with one camp or the other. The idea that global warming is a hoax is no longer a fringe perception but a part of the Republican Party brand.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Even if 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists manage to convince some conservative skeptics that global warming poses an urgent threat, Republican leaders have backed themselves into a corner. The issue has become so politically polarizing that it would be nearly impossible for them to retreat from their stance and to get behind legislation that is thought to concern global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I'm not suggesting that we halt efforts to educate the public about warming. For all sorts of reasons, such initiatives are critical. But we must stop thinking that these efforts are a necessary precondition for getting anything done on this issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So what's a conservative politician who secretly cares about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to do? How can Republicans, in Congress or in legislatures around the country, make the case to their colleagues - and how can they bring conservative voters along?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 They must start by focusing on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -friendly policies and stop assuming that we must first achieve unanimity on global warming science. People can support the transition to a carbon-free energy future without believing, or even knowing, that it might influence glaciers, coral reefs or Arctic ice.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There is a long list of carbon-reduction measures that strong majorities of Republicans, Democrats and independents firmly support, including mandating better fuel efficiency, increasing federal funding for clean-energy research, spending more for mass transit, raising efficiency standards for homes and other buildings, and requiring utilities to produce more energy from renewable sources. They even support limits on emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases - just as long as they are seen as anti-pollution measures, not "caps."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For instance, an October poll by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that 73 percent of Republicans favor requiring better fuel efficiency for cars, trucks and SUVs; 64 percent want more federal funding for research on wind, solar and hydrogen technology; and 55 percent favor spending more on public transportation. Pew polls over the summer, meanwhile, found that 74 percent of Republicans favor requiring utilities to produce more energy from renewable sources, while 57 percent back limits on carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Even as avowed a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  denier as Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.) is open to considering action on black carbon (more commonly known as soot), thought to be the second-largest contributor to global warming after carbon dioxide. As he told the Guardian last year, his interest in black carbon stems from concern about poor families in Africa who suffer lung disease as a result of cooking with wood stoves. "I am surprised that anyone would be at all surprised that I would be trying to find out about black carbon while I don't buy the idea that anthropogenic gases are causing global warming," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In focus groups conducted by my firm on behalf of numerous environmental organizations over the years, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  skeptics almost always tell us that such steps are good things to support, even if global warming isn't real. New energy approaches are good for the planet, for human health, for energy independence and for our economy, they say.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The current political and economic terrain isn't fertile ground for cap-and-trade or for other comprehensive legislation to address global warming, but that doesn't mean we can't make progress on the many solutions that people agree on across party lines. So let's set a bold target for the clean-energy production we will need in 10 or 20 years and start demanding a plan that will achieve it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The wary, the unconvinced and the downright skeptical don't have to be a barrier to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . They might even join in.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Meg Bostrom is co-founder of the Topos Partnership, a communications strategy firm. Together with the Social Capital Project, Topos researched and authored the 2009 report "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Crossroads: A Research-Based Framing Guide."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 14, 2010
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Al Gore: Climate change has the world on the verge of a food crisis
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 October 23, 2019 Wednesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0FOOD; Pg. E04
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01608 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Amanda Little
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0CARTHAGE, TENN.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 At his Tenn. farm, the Nobel winner convenes a discussion on next steps
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 CARTHAGE, Tenn. - "I've done so many presentations I just never get nervous anymore, but I was nervous before this one - so much new material," Al Gore said last week as he launched into the latest iteration of "An Inconvenient Truth," the slide show that won him an Oscar, a Nobel Prize and a Grammy. Gore had invited 300 guests - chefs, farmers, food executives and activists - to "The 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Underground," a two-day conference last week at his family farm here that explored the intersection of food, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and sustainable agriculture.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some 40 panelists, most of them farmers and scientists, took the stage to discuss topics from healthy soil to carbon sequestration, but the main event was Gore's slide show, delivered with his characteristic mix of bravado and humility, detailing the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on food systems worldwide. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is in Georgia; a heat wave cooked these apples before they could be harvested," he said, issuing forth rapid-fire examples alongside bone-chilling images and video. "This is the Australia wine region that's going to be untenable. . . . Rice yields in 80 percent of Japan have declined due to the rising temperatures. . . . In nearby Murfreesboro, Tenn., we'll see a quarter decline in soybean yields within the next 30 years." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gore spent the better part of 90 minutes detailing the pressures of drought, heat, flooding, superstorms, "rain bombs," invasive insects, fungi and bacterial blight on food producers. "We may be approaching a threshold beyond which the agriculture that we've always known cannot support human civilization as we know it," he declared in a low growl. "That's something we need to avoid."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Alice Waters, who Gore said catalyzed his interest in food and who had volunteered to cook the vegetarian lunches served to attendees (using local, seasonal and organic ingredients, natch), said the presentation was bittersweet: "I am deeply depressed. But on the other hand, the solution seems so, so unbelievably transformational. . . . We can restore the health of the planet while also restoring the health of people and communities." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Naomi Starkman, editor-in-chief of Civil Eats, which covers news on sustainable agriculture, was similarly fraught: "Gore spoke with such devastating and fierce clarity, connecting the dots between the ways agriculture is implicated in and impacted by the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis. But it also felt like a hopeful moment wherein agriculture, and farmers in particular, are taking a front-and-central place in solving one of the most urgent issues of our time."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mark Bittman, the former New York Times food columnist, was more circumspect: "There are ways in which the conversation here isn't quite realistic. Regenerative agriculture is not about increased yield, it's about producing more of the right food in the right ways. ... But kudos to Al Gore for taking it on. There's no more important conversation to have." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I sat down with the former vice president to dive deeper into the details. Edited excerpts of our conversation follow:
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : The main way most humans will experience 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is through its impact on food: Is this a fair statement?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : Ever since 2015, it's been clear that the impact on the food system was underestimated in previous years. And there is a natural resistance that many of us have had to getting too concerned about the food system. Food insecurity had been declining steadily for the last couple of decades, just as extreme poverty had been declining. But in the last couple of years, that too has 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and the principal reason is the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Africa, by mid-century, will have more people than either China or India. And by end of century, more people than China and India combined. And you combine that with the impact of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis on subsistence agriculture in Africa, the importance of subsistence agriculture in Africa, the poor quality of the soils, the persistent problems of land tenure, and the economic and social structures that discourage good stewardship of the land, then, wow. We really need to wake up quickly to the serious crisis that could develop there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : What are the most crucial policy measures that need to be taken to encourage regenerative farming in the U.S. and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -smart agriculture broadly?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : We need leadership to completely refocus USDA to completely 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the system of farm subsidies to stop the massive subsidies for crops that are not eaten by people, that go to biofuels, that go to animal feed. We should eventually work our way toward a system for compensating farmers for the buildup of soil carbon. That's not possible yet, partly because we are still developing a measurement of soil carbon buildup that is necessary for the confidence of policymakers and voters that this is not some boondoggle. But eventually, that's where we need to be. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : On one hand you have Bill Gates saying, "The time has come to reinvent food," and on the other you have Alice Waters and others saying, "Let's de-invent food, let's go back to preindustrial agriculture," essentially. What do you think the role of tech should be?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : We want a single, magic answer that's going to solve a big, complicated problem, and I think that in agriculture and food and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , these systemic approaches are usually more likely to be successful. But technology and science has an important role to play. Measuring soil carbon is one. That team at the Salk Institute has a really interesting proposal to modify roots to sequester more suberin, a form of carbon that stays in the soil for a long time. If their hypothesis is correct, the root structures of food plants can be made much more robust in a way that simultaneously sequesters more organic carbon and increases yields. So that's technology that is worth exploring and evaluating. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In general, the solutions in agriculture are more to be found in going back to some traditional approaches that worked but were discarded because of the pressure for short-term profit maximization. And that includes crop rotation. It includes cover crops to put key chemicals and nutrients back in the soil after it's been used for a particular cash crop. It includes rotational grazing, which is not without controversy but has been proven to work, at least on farms of this scale. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : What role must consumers play in the shift toward sustainable food systems and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  resilience?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : There's a danger in focusing on consumer behavior. There's a danger of giving the impression that the solutions to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis have to be shouldered by women and men who care enough about it to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  their personal choices. They do. But as important as it is to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a lightbulb, it is way more important to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies. And in order to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies, we have to have new policymakers. So the most important role that individuals can play is in taking their concern and passion for a better world into the voting booth and turning out in large numbers to overcome the dominance of our political system by big money. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : Some permaculture and regenerative farmers that I met with have said that it's more expensive to farm this way. They can't afford their own products. How do we address that? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : I don't want to deny the premise of your question, but some regenerative farmers have saved a lot of money on their input costs. Now, how do we develop markets for healthier, organic, regenerative-agriculture food? That's one of the reasons we're incorporating efforts to get school systems and hospitals and nursing homes and long-term care facilities to provide markets for healthier food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : Still, there are real concerns from middle- and low-income consumers that this is an elitist movement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : It hasn't been very many years since solar panels were considered an elitist movement. And you heard exactly the same critique. "For those who can afford them, that's fine. But don't tell me that's going to be a significant development, because only the wealthy elite are doing it." Well, that's not true anymore, because that was the beginning of a movement that drove scale and accelerated the cost reduction curve. And now you've got people putting rooftop solar on and community solar, and it is really taking off dramatically. But it started as an elitist movement. The same thing is beginning to be true of electric vehicles. If we can democratize and widely distribute the soil carbon assessment technologies, I don't think it's that hard to imagine technology driving the cost down to the point where this can spread more rapidly.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : The agriculture industry is so interesting because it is a major driver of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problem, but it is also more vulnerable than any other industry to the pressures of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : Many pioneers of regenerative agriculture are finding that their farms are more resilient to drought and flood and extreme weather than with the older established farming techniques. Building the health of the soil does not mean just more organic carbon. It also means building the ability of the soil to absorb the higher rainfall events and to withstand drought events more effectively. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Q : One scientist said to me the most delicious fruits are dying because the specialist crops, the ones that we love the most, are hardest to adapt to new circumstances. Of all the crops that are most vulnerable, which would be the hardest for you to live without? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A : Chocolate. Cacao. Absolutely.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 food@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Little is author of "The Fate of Food: What We'll Eat in a Bigger, Hotter, Smarter World" (Harmony, 2019).
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0October 23, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 TV depicts kids' fear of climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 1, 2019 Monday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0STYLE; Pg. C01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0973 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Sonia Rao
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The kids are anxious.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Can you blame them? In a nation inundated with news of mass shootings and the separation of migrant families, the youngest generation must also learn to cope with the debilitating knowledge that they will be the generation most affected by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , should it continue on the trajectory scientists believe it will take. In a report published in April by the Harvard Public Opinion Project, 46 percent of those 18 to 24 years old said 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is "a crisis and demands urgent action."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Here's this big situation that's clearly getting worse, and that we didn't start. We inherited it," Lynn Bufka, associate director of practice research and policy at the American Psychological Association, said of what might run through a young adult's mind. "What are we going to do?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That anxiety has started to boil over into popular culture. Although movies and television have long toyed with doomsday scenarios, we're now seeing deeper, more poignant treatments of the issue, with scenes of children and young adults trying to grapple with their fears about a fast-
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  world. In the nihilistic new HBO series "Euphoria," for instance, an anxiety-prone teen drug addict defends her post-rehab drug use by remarking that "the world's coming to an end, and I haven't even graduated high school yet."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The third episode in this season of "Big Little Lies," which airs before "Euphoria," included a subplot in which Amabella (Ivy George), daughter of the fiercely protective Renata Klein (Laura Dern), passes out from a panic attack while learning about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and sustainability.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "How many gallons of water does it take to make a single pound of sausage?" her teacher asks, to which the second-graders respond, "A thousand."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The teacher continues: "A thousand gallons. And how many showers does that add up to?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Over 50."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There's a sudden thud, and a cut to Amabella's tiny feet poking out from behind a closet door (where she had presumably hidden to try to calm down).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Later in the episode, a child psychiatrist informs Amabella's parents that their daughter is worried about the planet's destruction.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Her class is evidently talking about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , and she's gotten the message that we're doomed," the psychiatrist says.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Renata swiftly storms into the principal's office, where he tells her that "the children are constantly bombarded with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's our job to deconstruct it so they can process it," Amabella's teacher adds.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Good for you," Renata retorts. "You deconstructed my little girl into a coma."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Regardless of whether this was an appropriate second-grade lesson plan, it isn't unreasonable for the teacher to assume that children of the digital era have encountered this kind of information already. A United Nations report in October attracted quite a bit of attention - still not enough, some would say - over its message that the world has just over a decade to take "unprecedented" actions to curb carbon emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Adults, at least, have the ability to vote, to write their representatives, to control their household habits - but many of them still feel helpless. Imagine how children must feel.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Younger children, in particular - that's going to be very hard for them," Bufka said. "I think another piece about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is that it feels much bigger than an individual. I take public transit, but I'm not getting rid of all those cars on the road that I can see outside my window. If I stop using straws, is that really going to make a difference? The kinds of actions one might take have to scale up to a larger level. That can feel overwhelming to an individual."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Independent filmmaker Jim Jarmusch built much of his recent zombie movie "The Dead Don't Die" off this apprehension. The creatures rise up because of an unsustainable human activity (the fictional "polar fracking") that knocks the Earth off its axis. We witness a small town's adult residents fall prey to zombies one by one, their attackers a representation of the relative apathy humankind has exhibited toward serious issues such as the world's destruction. The only glimmer of hope resides in a juvenile detention center, where a few of the town's youngest residents express concern about what's happening to the planet.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Though we never learn the kids' fates, it's hard to imagine a positive outcome.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That sense of resignation is explored in Paul Schrader's "First Reformed," nominated for best original screenplay at the Oscars this year. The film is, as Washington Post critic Ann Hornaday put it, an "austere drama of one man's apocalyptic crisis of faith." The story is prompted by the suicide of an anguished eco-activist whose wife was pregnant and who had worried about bringing a child into an ecologically doomed world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the "Big Little Lies" episode, Madeline Mackenzie (Reese Witherspoon) undergoes her own crisis of faith over a single scene. She stands onstage during a PTA meeting, presumably to persuade everyone to support Renata's mission to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the science curriculum, but she winds up doing the opposite as she descends into tears. This is largely because her husband found out she cheated on him, but also because, as she tells the other parents, "We tell ourselves we're going to be fine, but we're not."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is important. It's important. But it's also a lot to load up on a lot of second-graders. I'm sorry that the whole world might go kapooey?" Madeline begins. "They need to know that? You know, I think a part of the problem is, we lie to our kids. We fill their heads full of Santa Claus and stories with happy endings when most of us know most endings to most stories . . . suck, right?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Let's just get real. There aren't a lot of happy endings for a lot of people, you know? Be it 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , be it guns in school. And our kids are afraid."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sonia.rao@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 1, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Trump errs repeatedly by confusing climate change with having the 'cleanest air'
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 2, 2019 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A14
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0674 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 When asked about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , President Trump has a ready answer. The United States has the "cleanest air" and "cleanest water" in the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But there is a big, glaring problem with that superlative response. Clear air and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , though related, are hardly the same thing.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Over and over again, when pressed by reporters during sit-down interviews or at news conferences, Trump appears to confuse the buildup of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere with the sort of sooty air pollution that contributes to lung and heart problems when inhaled.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The president most recently made that error Saturday during a news conference at the end of the second day of the G-20 summit in Osaka, Japan.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We have the cleanest water we have ever had. We have the cleanest air we've ever had, but I'm not willing to sacrifice the tremendous power of what we've built up over a long period of time and what I've enhanced and revived," Trump said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Here's the issue with that statement: The gases that are causing temperatures to rise globally and those that make the air "dirty" - that is, those that contribute to a health problem when breathed in - are not always the same.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While carbon dioxide, for example, traps energy in the atmosphere, it is safe for humans to breathe at the levels at which it is currently accumulating. Meanwhile, exposure to particulate matter leads to higher instances of a host of health problems, but some sulfur-containing forms of it actually have a cooling effect by blocking sunlight from reaching the Earth's surface. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This is not the first time Trump has conflated 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and clean air.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During a trip to the United Kingdom last month, Trump was asked by British broadcast journalist Piers Morgan what Prince Charles, an avid environmentalist, had told him about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "He wants to make sure future generations have 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that is good 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , as opposed to a disaster, and I agree," Trump said in response. "I did mention a couple of things. I did say, well the United States right now has among the cleanest 
\f1\i\b \ul climates
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  there are based on all statistics, and it's even getting better. Because I agree with that, I want the best water, the cleanest water. Crystal clean. Has to be crystal clean."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And again in June when asked about Irish President Michael Higgins's recent comment that Trump has a "regressive and pernicious" record on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the U.S. president said: "I haven't heard those comments. . . . But we have the cleanest air in the world in the United States, and it's gotten better since I became president; we have the cleanest water - it is crystal clear. I always say I want crystal clear water and air. So I haven't heard his comments, but we are setting records environmentally."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump's erroneous refrain on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is so persistent that even other members of the administration have picked it up. "America has the cleanest air and water in the world," Vice President Pence told CNN host Jake Tapper when asked last week whether he thinks 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a threat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One potential explanation for Trump's apparent confusion is that these different 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone - and health-related emissions often come from the same source. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For example, a linchpin of the Obama administration's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions was a set of tougher pollution standards for coal-fired power plants. But when justifying the Clean Power Plan, the Environmental Protection Agency also calculated the positive health effects - or "co-benefits" - of reducing smog-forming pollution directly harmful to human health.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When Trump's Environmental Protection Agency last year decided to relax those standards, which never ended up taking effect because of a Supreme Court decision impeding it, the agency admitted that its new rule could lead to 470 to 1,400 premature deaths each year compared with the Obama-era rule. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another possible explanation: Trump understands the difference, but his go-to line about the country having the "cleanest air" is simply an easy deflection.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 2, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 NASA's bipartisan support belies the lack of belief in man-made climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 24, 2018 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A19
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01029 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Though inundated by news of the three-day government shutdown and an allegation that   President Trump had an affair with an adult-film star, an announcement late last week from federal scientists should, in the long term, prove far more consequential.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 2017 was the second-hottest year in 138 years of record-keeping, trailing only 2016.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The planet is warming remarkably uniformly," Gavin Schmidt, director of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York, told The Post's Chris Mooney and other reporters Thursday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The measurements were made by NASA, better known for rocketing astronauts into orbit than for tabulating rising global temperatures. Yet the space agency - one of the few government agencies beloved by Republicans and Democrats alike - does both.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 NASA is uncommonly popular for an arm of the federal government. More than two-thirds of U.S. adults view the space agency favorably, according to a 2015 Pew survey. Unlike so many other topics in politics, NASA's sky-high popularity bridges the interplanetary void that often separates partisans on policy issues. Majorities of independents (70 percent), Democrats (68 percent) and Republicans (63 percent) say they like the space agency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That fondness - born out of completing daring missions, such as sending men to the moon and robots to Mars - appears to translate into trust. Of 11 government agencies that study 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Smithsonian Institution - NASA is thought by Americans to have the most talented researchers, according to a 2012 study. Sixty percent of respondents rated NASA research scientists as "very competent" - higher than any other government agency surveyed in that study.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the love for NASA doesn't mean the GOP embraces the agency's stance on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science. Last year, only 18 percent of Republicans said they worried a great deal about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , according to Gallup.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The incongruity between support for the space agency and its 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  warnings stems from a "crucial tension in conservative attitudes towards 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," according to John Cook, a research assistant professor at the Center for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Communication at George Mason University.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "On the one hand, there is respect for scientific institutions like NASA," Cook wrote by email. "On the other hand, acceptance of human-caused global warming is low."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Part of the disconnect probably comes from the fact that the public probably doesn't understand the full scope of the space agency's mission.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yes, NASA sends robotic spacecrafts to explore our solar system's other planets and sends telescopes into orbit to observe distant galaxies. But the original 1958 law that created NASA also directs the agency to expand "human knowledge of phenomena in the atmosphere" right here on Earth - an objective its 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  lab in New York carries out by calculating the atmospheric phenomenon of rising global temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nevertheless, the image of NASA as solely a builder and launcher of rockets persists. In the 2012 study, 41 percent of respondents, a plurality, said they did not know how much 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  research NASA conducted.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Americans are more likely to think such work was carried out by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency. (NOAA, using different methodology, concluded that last year was the third-warmest ever recorded.)
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In truth, no agency spends more on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science than NASA, according to the Government Accountability Office.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 More broadly, there's significant skepticism, especially among Republicans, about the scientific consensus inside and outside of NASA that the burning of fossil fuels and other human activity is warming the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "A short answer is that most Republicans don't know about the scientific consensus," said Anthony Leiserowitz, a Yale research scientist and director of the Yale Program on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Communication who conducted the 2012 survey on NASA.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But when survey takers are told about that consensus - by one 2013 count, 97 percent of scientific studies agree on man-made global warming - "people then update their other beliefs about global warming being real and worrisome," said Edward Maibach, a George Mason professor who worked with Leiserowitz on the NASA survey.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In their published papers, Maibach and Leiserowitz dubbed knowing the scientific consensus on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a "gateway belief."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Their research shows that people generally take their cues from politicians rather than 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists when it comes to the issue, which means for Republicans, they are hearing a lot of doubt about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science.       
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "One of the simple, clear ideas about global warming that they have heard over and over and over again, because it is the product of a strategic communication campaign," Maibach said, "is that there is a lot of disagreement among the experts."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 With Trump, these barbs are even sharper. On Twitter, he has called those concerned about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  "hoaxsters,"              "con artists" and "dollar sucking wiseguys."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But other Republicans' rhetoric, even if more tempered, has taken on NASA more directly. When NASA and NOAA announced 2015 was a (then) record-setting year for global temperatures, the office of Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) said that "satellite and weather balloon data do not show 2015 as a record year."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the other side of the Capitol, House Science Committee Chairman Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), who chairs the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, called last year for a "rebalancing" of NASA's budget toward more space exploration and away from earth science.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Indeed, NASA's Earth Science Division has seen its budget oscillate between presidential administrations, with President George W. Bush reducing resources and his successor, Barack Obama, restoring them.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Scientists are trained to basically say it once and move on to the newest thing," Maibach said. "Scientists don't like to go back and repeat themselves over and over and over again, because that's just not the way science works. But that's the way public understanding is built. And politicians know that."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandoni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 24, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ExxonMobil defeats climate-change measures
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 26, 2016 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A16
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0776 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 CEO says oil is needed until technological breakthrough emerges
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 ExxonMobil beat back shareholder resolutions about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that would have reoriented the oil and gas giant toward renewable energy, forced it to disclose lobbying details and installed a board member with expertise in the area of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But at its annual meeting at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center in Dallas, the company badly lost a vote over a resolution that will make it easier for large shareholders to nominate their own board members and have them included in proxy materials ahead of the annual meeting.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 ExxonMobil chief executive Rex Tillerson stuck up for the company's positions. He acknowledged that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was a serious problem and said the company would support a tax on the carbon content of fuels, but he said that only oil and gas could meet the world's needs as the population grows and living standards rise.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We have to have some technology breakthroughs, but in the meantime, just saying 'turn the taps off' is not acceptable to humanity," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The biggest U.S. oil and gas company has been in the crosshairs of environmental groups probing whether ExxonMobil knew as early as four decades ago the scope of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and whether it should be held accountable for harm caused by the burning of fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman and at least four other attorneys general are investigating the company's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The most successful of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related shareholder resolutions garnered 38.2 percent of the voting shares. Sponsored by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, holding nearly 11 million Exxon shares, the measure would have forced ExxonMobil to report annually on how 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could affect the company's ability to operate.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Edward Mason, head of responsible investment at Church Commissioners for England, had argued that the company should have a scenario with "stress tests" as global warming approaches 2 degrees Celsius. He noted that BP, Royal Dutch Shell and Total have agreed to issue such reports.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many critics of ExxonMobil note that while the company says it cares about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , it provides funding to trade and lobbying groups that deny or play down its effects. So the United Steelworkers proposed full disclosure of the company's direct and indirect lobbying expenditures. The measure won support from 25.8 percent of the voting shares.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Tillerson said that the company would continue to fund groups such as the American Legislative Exchange Council, a conservative group that works mostly at the state and local levels. Tillerson said that Exxon "found our engagement with them to be very productive," and said "whether we agree or not, we find it very useful."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 ALEC is working to roll back renewable-energy requirements that have been adopted by the majority of state governments.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In 2013, ALEC offered model legislation, as it is known, to state legislators asserting that the science was uncertain about the role of human activity in 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A motion to install a board member with expertise on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  won 20.9 percent of shares cast.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Other shareholders said that if the international community were to stick to its target of limiting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to two degrees Celsius, much of ExxonMobil's 25 billion barrels of proved oil reserves and natural gas equivalents would be stranded and useless.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Tillerson said that there was "no scientific basis" for establishing an international target of limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius and that it was a societal choice. Such choices, he added, must be "grounded in reality. No energy source available on the planet" would be able to sustain "our economies, our way of life or, I would say, our very survival."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He said energy-efficiency measures would keep down greenhouse-gas emissions, but he said that by 2040 oil and gas would still account for 60 percent of global energy needs, about the same percentage as today.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Not everyone who attended the meeting cared about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issues. One man, choking up, said, "You personify all that is best in America" and added that "the lives of all of us shareholders are more secure and, in return, happier because of you."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But most speakers dealt with the resolutions in the proxy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sister Patricia A. Daly, a Dominican nun who is executive director of the New Jersey-based Tri-State Coalition for Responsible Investment, advocated a measure that would request the Exxon board to commit to supporting the goal of limiting warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Daly said, "as the world moves forward, ExxonMobil stands still."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 26, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate change tests voters in the Pacific Northwest
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 1, 2018 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A16
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01789 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Pacific Northweststate could be first to place tax on carbon dioxide
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The bride had asthma. The scenic Seattle skyline - the ideal backdrop for photographs - was shrouded in smoke from wildfires. And Perfectly Posh Events, the wedding planner, had to scramble for an indoor venue in the middle of summer, usually the best time of the year for an outdoor exchanging of vows.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I've lived in Seattle my whole life. This is not something I remember growing up with," said Holly Olsen, owner of the business. "Clearly there has been some kind of 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that happened."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What's happened is 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It has contributed to the dry conditions that fueled forest fires, blanketing Seattle with smoke this year. It has altered the acidity of the oceans, damaging oyster farms in nearby Puget Sound. And now, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has made its way onto the Nov. 6 ballot, in the form of a statewide initiative that would impose a $15-a-ton fee on carbon emissions that cause global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If the measure is adopted, Washington would become the first state in the nation to tax carbon dioxide, the most prevalent greenhouse gas.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The drive has sparked a fight for votes that pits big oil refiners against a coalition of environmental groups, unions, Native American groups, communities of color, liberal business leaders like Bill Gates, and Gov. Jay Inslee (D).
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The battle has set a new Washington state record for spending on a ballot issue. The Clean Air Clean Energy coalition to say "yes" on the ballot has raised more than $15 million, including $1 million each from Gates and former New York mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Big oil companies belonging to the Western States Petroleum Association - including Koch Industries - have given more than $31 million, according to the state's Public Disclosure Commission.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I have three grandkids, and I'd like them to have a shot at a healthy Washington," Inslee said. But two consecutive years of smoky wildfires have shown that "unfortunately it is not just for our children but also for our lives."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Win or lose, Washington's Initiative 1631 is a case study in how thorny the politics of carbon pricing can be - starting with the name. Calling it a tax might please economists but could be fatal politically. The measure's supporters call it a fee.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If something is a fee, it makes it much more difficult for the legislature to use the money raised for things not directly related to what it's supposed to do," said Gregg Small, executive director of 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Solutions. Seventy percent of the revenue is earmarked for renewable energy investment, and 25 percent for water and forests.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "People want a fee on pollution, not a tax," pollster Frank Greer said. "People want to do something about carbon pollution and see those funds invested in a clean energy economy."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Support is heavy in the bigger cities of Seattle and Spokane, and among young voters and suburban women - a lot like the voters Democrats hope to win over. And the bout of bad summer air quality, which rivaled Beijing's, still looms in people's minds.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It is definitely a thing that has become a concern for couples," Olsen said. She said those making plans for 2019 ask: "Should this be a regular thing to expect in summer?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a Crosscut/Elway poll, Initiative 1631 drew 50 percent approval among the approximately 400 registered voters polled. Thirty-six percent said they opposed the initiative, while 14 percent were undecided. The poll has a margin of error of 5 points.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Stuart Elway has polled on 90 initiatives and only 16 have passed when drawing less than 50 percent support in October. "It's right on the cusp," Elway said. "There's no cushion."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 'We have to pedal faster'
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 One reason the initiative has a chance is the difference between it and other carbon tax proposals, including one currently being promoted in the nation's capital by a group of leading economists and former Cabinet members and lawmakers. The group, led by former treasury secretary James A. Baker and former secretary of state George Shultz, supports a revenue-neutral plan that would tax carbon emissions and send identical refunds, or dividends, to households.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Washington state tried a similar idea two years ago, combining a carbon tax with other tax cuts.It failed to win the support of unions or even some environmental groups.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This time, the initiative reflects a variety of stakeholders. Jeff Johnson, president of the Washington State Labor Council, is on board. The measure would exempt eight energy-intensive manufacturing plants, pour fee revenue into clean energy projects, fund training and early retirement plans for affected workers, and create an appointed board that would allocate revenue in the future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One of the exempted facilities is the biggest emitter of all, a coal-fired power plant owned by TransAlta, which had already agreed to close its plant by 2025. Exemptions would also go to paper companies, aircraft manufacturers and an aluminum smelter - all highly sensitive to international competition. Native American tribes that do not pay sales taxes would also be exempt.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But oil refiners would have to pay.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  experts criticize the fee for being too small. After kicking in at $15 a ton, the fee would increase $2 a ton a year until 2035. It would raise more than $1 billion annually by 2025.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Riding in his car earlier this month on his way to meet with Gates, the governor conceded the criticism.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It is a small signal," Inslee said. "But it is a signal of intent. And it does accelerate over time. You need that plus investment to move the carbon needle."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee is widely considered a potential presidential candidate for 2020, and his embrace of the measure could distinguish him from other presidential hopefuls. He avoids the "T" word - taxes - and stresses investment in renewable "infrastructure" and "clean energy" jobs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To him, the recent Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  report, which warned that "unprecedented" action was needed over the next decade, was "an eye-opener."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "However fast we had to pedal before, we have to pedal faster now."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 'Our fate is already sealed'
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The state's biggest oil companies argue that the carbon initiative isn't going to make a dent in global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Western States Petroleum Association said that "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  should be addressed at national and international levels" and that state-level policy "would have a negligible impact on mitigating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  but could have a significant negative impact on our state's businesses." It said that the carbon fee would initially boost gasoline prices about 14 cents a gallon.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The oil companies have set up an organization called No-on-1631 whose spokeswoman Dana Bieber took aim at exemptions, especially the coal plant. Inslee, however, said that to do otherwise would violate the contractual agreement to close the plant. Moreover, the objective of the fee is to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  behavior, not raise money.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The campaign is awkward for two major oil companies that publicly support carbon taxes in general. Shell, which runs the state's second largest refinery, has neither contributed to the "no" campaign nor endorsed the initiative, disappointing some people in the company.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 BP, by contrast, has given $12.9 million in cash to defeat it, the largest amount for any single company. In a letter to a state house representative, BP refinery manager Robert K. Allendorfer called the initiative a "poorly designed policy that would disrupt Washington's economy without achieving significant reductions in carbon emissions."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Quoting a study by NERA Economic Consulting, which often works for the oil and gas industry, Bieber said that the measure would cost the average Washington state household $440 a year at the gas pump and on utility bills. She said it would raise $30 billion over 15 years and create "an unelected board of political appointees who can spend money any way they choose."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Noah Kaufman, an economist at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy, noted that "groups withholding support for a carbon tax until a policy comes along that perfectly matches their priorities and is devoid of compromises to overcome real-world constraints are likely to be waiting a long time."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Supporters of the carbon fee argue that NERA did not take into account 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in people's behavior, the initiative's objective.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee says that Washington voters won't be convinced by the oil-backed group.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Given what the oil industry has done - unfettered, unlimited in time or amount - to the one atmosphere we have, it shouldn't cause a lot of angst or tears to be simply asking them to not treat our atmosphere like a sewer," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Outside the petroleum industry, many executives have backed the initiative.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You may be skeptical about this idea. I know I was. How can one state make a difference on a global problem like 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ?" Gates wrote in an open letter. "But I overcame my doubts." He called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the "toughest problem humanity has ever faced" and said the initiative would send a "clear market signal."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Taylor Shellfish, a family business that has been plying the waters of Puget Sound since 1890 and now employs 700 people, has already been getting clear signals of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A decade ago, it lost 75 percent of the oyster larvae critical to producing baby oysters. The family consulted a leading expert at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, but the diagnosis wasn't good: Carbon dioxide that had been stored in the ocean was disrupting the coastal ecology, causing a shortage of carbonate ions. That made it impossible for the tiny larvae to build shells without using up the energy they need to build feeding organs in the same crucial 48-hour period.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Probably the most difficult part of the message is that the water upwelling along the Washington coast is actually 30 to 50 years old, and it's been circulating at depths," said Bill Dewey, the company's senior director of public affairs. "So even if the world stops burning fossil fuels today, our fate is already sealed for the next 30 to 50 years. The ocean is going to continue to get more acidic because of what is already absorbed and in the pipeline."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The family is trying to adapt, using sea grasses and kelp that absorb carbon dioxide.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Ours is actually an encouraging story," Dewey said. "But we've also been trying to use this experience to broaden policymakers' awareness of what the effects are of carbon pollution and the importance of reducing our reliance on fossil fuels."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But in a sign of how difficult it is to rally people around a single proposal: Dewey said the Taylors, an old Republican family that has supported Democrats and Republicans alike, were staying "neutral" on the carbon fee initiative.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 1, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Category 6? Climate change may cause hurricanes to more rapidly intensify.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 12, 2018 Wednesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A06
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01110 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In little more than a day, Hurricane Florence exploded from a Category 1 storm to a Category 4 behemoth with 140 mph winds. This process - hurricanes intensifying fast - is both highly dangerous and poorly understood. But new research finds that storms will do it faster and more often as the Earth warms, occasionally growing so strong that they could arguably be labeled "Category 6."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new science draws on increasingly powerful supercomputing, capable of simulating massive planetary features such as the atmosphere and oceans while retaining enough detail to capture smaller ones such as hurricanes. That is how a model created at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory generated the new findings, showing that fast-intensifying storms could worsen hurricane risks later in this century.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The reason there are going to be more major hurricanes is not necessarily there are going to be that many more storms. . . . It's really the fact that those storms are going to get there faster," said Kieran Bhatia, lead author of the new research in the Journal of 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Bhatia completed the work while he was a graduate researcher at Princeton University and the nearby NOAA laboratory.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The signs have been apparent, in the past several years, of ultra-intense hurricanes that reach that level by intensifying explosively. Last year's Hurricane Maria, for instance, spun up from a mere tropical depression into a Category 5 storm in just over two days. 2015's Hurricane Patricia had winds above 210 mph, more than 50 mph stronger than the weakest Category 5 storms.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kerry Emanuel, an expert on hurricanes and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  at MIT, said in an email that the new research "may prove a game-changer in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -hurricane studies." Emanuel was not directly involved in the work.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The study draws on enhanced computer power to achieve something that until now has been very difficult to achieve - capturing a reasonable representation of hurricanes in a global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  model that simulates both the atmosphere and the oceans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Dividing the globe into squares roughly 16 miles by 16 miles in size, researchers were able to simulate Category 4 and 5 storms, and where they occur around the globe, in a generally accurate way.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But when they moved from simulating late-20th-century hurricanes to examining those of the future under a midrange 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scenario, big 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  emerged. For the period between 2016 and 2035, there were more hurricanes in general and 11 percent more hurricanes of the Category 3, 4 and 5 classes; by the end of the century, there were 20 percent more of the worst storms.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What's more, the research found that storms of super-extreme intensity, with maximum sustained winds above 190 mph, also became more common. While it found only nine of these storms in a simulation of the late 20th century, it found 32 for the period from 2016 to 2035 and 72 for the period from 2081 to 2100.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There's no "Category 6" on the Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale, but the open-ended Category 5 grouping begins at 157 mph, far lower than the intensities of such storms. And the lower categories require a much smaller increase in wind speeds before reaching the next category. For example, the weakest Category 5 storm would be 24 mph stronger than the weakest Category 4.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Recently, some scientists have been speaking of a possible "Category 6" designation, although there is much debate over whether that is a good idea. Clearly, though, some recent storms would qualify, the most notable being Patricia, but also 2013's Super Typhoon Haiyan and several others.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's what you expect if you have a shift toward more intense storms, is that you'll start seeing intensities you haven't seen before," said Gabriel Vecchi, an atmospheric scientist at Princeton and one of the study's authors.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That said, Vecchi isn't sure about the "Category 6" concept.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I think I'd bring a social scientist in here to see what the net value of having a Category 6 designation would be," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Perhaps most significant, the new research singles out rapid intensification as the key mechanism driving stronger storms in a warmer 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . In future years, it finds more storms that strengthen by more than 45 mph in 24 hours, as Hurricane Florence did, and even some super-extreme storms that intensify by more than 115 mph in 24 hours.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To understand why rapid intensification matters, consider the globe's current population of tropical cyclones (or typhoons, or hurricanes). There are many relatively weak ones - Category 1 and 2 - but also many intense storms with winds that exceed 130 mph.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The difference, prior research has found, is often a difficult-to-forecast process in which the storm rapidly strengthens, usually in the presence of favorable environmental conditions, such as extra-warm seas and slack winds around the storm.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Because 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is expected to produce warmer oceans, it has been natural to wonder if more fast-intensifying storms will be in the offing. Now, the new research has suggested that this will indeed be the case.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The forward-looking study by Bhatia and his colleagues remains agnostic about precisely what is happening right now - a period in which we are already seeing very strong storms.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This paper doesn't really say what we've had so far, if there's a trend," Bhatia said. "It literally just says, 'Okay, in this particular model, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is going to make XYZ more likely.' "
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But that model is a major advance, said MIT's Emanuel.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Its resolution is "one of the highest yet achieved" for a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  simulation capturing both atmosphere and oceans, Emanuel said in an email. "It is important to note that this still under-resolves [tropical cyclones], but it is an important step in the right direction. Unlike almost all other [global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  model]-based studies, it simulates Cat 4-5 storm and it projects an increase in the overall frequency of [tropical cyclones] globally."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Chris Landsea, who directs the Tropical Analysis and Forecast Branch of the National Hurricane Center, is less convinced, noting that the study's large projected increases in the strength of future hurricanes "deviates from most of the earlier published work which showed . . . no significant 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in major hurricane numbers, and only a 2-5% increase in intensity of hurricanes."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Scientists have been debating the fate of hurricanes under 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  for over a decade; no one study will 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that, as the authors of the new research acknowledge.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Meanwhile, Hurricane Florence is set to cross seas a degree or more warmer than normal on its path toward the East Coast.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 12, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Perry testifies 'some' climate change is driven by humans
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 20, 2017 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A09
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01196 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson;Sean Sullivan
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Former Texas governor Rick Perry, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee to run the Energy Department, parried questions about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  at his confirmation hearing Thursday morning, reversing his earlier skeptical stance but still balking when pressed to declare it a crisis. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Perry also expressed contrition for campaigning for the presidency in 2012 on the promise of abolishing the agency. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "My past statements made over five years ago about abolishing the Department of Energy do not reflect my current thinking," Perry said in his opening statement to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. "In fact, after being briefed on so many of the vital functions of the Department of Energy, I regret recommending its elimination."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Perry brought up the politically sensitive topic of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , saying he believes the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and "some of it" is caused by "man-made activity." He added: "The question is how we address it in a thoughtful way that doesn't compromise economic growth."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Like other Trump nominees who have professed differences with the president-elect over 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , Perry framed the issue in a way that went beyond what Trump has said. But Democrats probed to figure out whether Perry's new stance marked an incremental or fundamental 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in outlook. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One day after U.S. scientists declared 2016 the hottest year on record, Perry went further than Trump did in a television interview broadcast late last year. The president-elect told "Fox News Sunday" in December that "nobody really knows" whether 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is real.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Perry's comment was also at odds with his own earlier public posture. During a 2014 Christian Science Monitor luncheon, Perry said the science showing that humans are contributing to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was unsettled and argued that calling carbon dioxide "a pollutant is doing a disservice" to the country.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Throughout the hearing, Perry sidestepped Democrats who sought to pin him down about the gravity of the problem. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) repeatedly asked Perry whether he agreed that it is a "crisis." Perry declined to answer directly. "I like getting past the rhetoric," he said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some Democrats on the panel criticized Perry for placing the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issue at odds with economic concerns. Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) pointed to damage to fishing and timber industries from higher temperatures and fires. Perry responded by pointing to the record in Texas, where the economy grew while the various emissions fell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Perry also tried to defuse controversy over a questionnaire that the Trump transition team gave to Energy Department officials asking for the names of individuals involved in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  research and negotiations. Though the transition team disavowed the questionnaire, it raised fears of a witch hunt for people working on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "That questionnaire went out before I was ever selected," Perry said. "I didn't approve it. I don't approve of it. I don't need that information. I don't want that information." He added, "I have a history of working with people to deal with the challenges that face us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He called the national laboratories the "crown jewel of this country from an intellectual and certainly scientific standpoint." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Citing Perry's assertion in his 2010 book that the planet was in a "cooling trend," Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) asked him how much he thinks 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is caused by human activity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Far from me to be sitting before you today and claiming to be a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist. I will not do that," said Perry, dodging the question. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't think you're ever going to be a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist. But you're going to be the head of the Department of Energy," Franken shot back.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Trump's nomination of Perry marks an unusual turn for the Texas politician.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As Perry bowed out of the presidential campaign in September 2015, he took a not-so-veiled parting shot at front-runner Trump. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The conservative movement has always been about principles, not personalities," Perry said in an email to supporters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fifteen months later, Perry was invited to join the cast of the Trump Cabinet as energy secretary.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is an unexpected landing pad for Perry. In the 2012 presidential campaign, Perry said that the agency was one of three that should be abolished - although, with a sheepish "oops," he famously could not remember its name during a debate. The episode ended Perry's campaign. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Now, Perry needs to figure out how to manage that department. If confirmed, Perry would run an agency tasked with monitoring the nation's nuclear stockpile, cleaning up old nuclear-weapon development sites, managing the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, setting appliance standards, managing the national laboratories, and overseeing a portfolio of grants, loans and loan guarantees that support research and development on every type of energy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many people say that Perry brings valuable experience to the job. As governor, he benefited from a rapid expansion of oil and gas exploration in new shale oil and shale gas plays. But he also oversaw an expansion of transmission lines that made way for a rapid expansion of wind energy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Under Rick Perry's leadership, Texas created a stable, long-term, competitive energy market, combined with robust infrastructure investment, which allowed new technologies, like wind, to enter," the American Wind Energy Association's chief executive, Tom Kiernan, said in a letter to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During Perry's tenure, Texas became the nation's leading wind energy state. By the end of 2015, the state had nearly 18,000 megawatts of installed capacity, driven by more than $32 billion of private investment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Environmental groups are less enthusiastic about Perry. They worry that he will try to curb the department's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related research and regulatory activities. Perry has sharply criticized New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) for banning hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to explore for shale oil and shale gas, suggesting in a radio interview that Cuomo had given in to "a small group of radical environmentalists to stop job creation and to stop people's ability to have a better life for themselves."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Though Perry, who was governor for 14 years, lacks the academic firepower of predecessors such as Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicist Ernest Moniz or Nobel Prize-winning physicist Steven Chu, other secretaries have included a U.S. senator, a business woman, a retired admiral and a dentist-turned-politician. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "He's managed one of the largest economies based on energy in the world," said Frank Maisano, a public affairs specialist on energy at the law firm Bracewell. "He did an effective job of balancing both fossil fuels and the expansion of renewable generation."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Salo Zelermyer, a senior lawyer at the Energy Department under President George W. Bush, said: "From my perspective, anybody who has served as governor of a state like Texas for the length of time he served speaks to his ability to manage large organizations and to understand the dynamic between the appropriate role of regulation and appropriate role of industry."  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sean.sullivan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 20, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Annapolis can set the right course on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 10, 2019 Sunday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C04
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0766 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Mike Tidwell;Karla Raettig
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Mike Tidwell is executive director of the Chesapeake 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Action Network. Karla Raettig is executive director of the Maryland League of Conservation Voters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When it comes to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , Maryland is like a fragile ship caught in a big storm. Great swells of rising water buffet the state in the form of sea-level rise. And dark, howling skies keep opening up, triggering 1,000-year floods such as the ones that recently devastated Ellicott City twice in 22 months.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Any rational captain and crew would bail water and steer rapidly to harbor in such a storm. That's precisely what the Maryland General Assembly is being asked to do right now in Annapolis. How? By joining other states and countries in moving rapidly toward clean energy, thus reducing the source of the storm itself: greenhouse-gas emissions from fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Clean Energy Jobs Act, now before the Maryland Senate and House, would mandate that 50 percent of the state's electricity come from renewable sources by 2030. It would create a plan to get to 100 percent clean power by 2040. Large majorities of lawmakers in both chambers have said they will vote for the bill, but a few representatives want to wait. "Let's take action next year," they say. "Or the year after that." Which begs the question: What ship captain, seeing water spilling over the gunwales and into the galley, with rain crashing overhead, tells his crew, "Drop the lines! Let go of the rudder. We'll steer clear of the storm later"?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A growing body of scientific evidence justifies the nautical image. Last October, the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the largest scientific collaboration in human history, announced that the world has barely more than 10 years to cut global greenhouse-gas emissions essentially in half. Failure to do so would commit the entire planet to perpetually rising seas and bigger storms.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A preview of that alarming world is on full display in Annapolis itself right now. Last month, a groundbreaking study by Stanford University researchers showed that, in 2017, downtown merchants in the waterfront capital lost up to $172,000 due to "nuisance flooding." In short, rising tides linked to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  keep pushing water up - yes, up - the drains in the City Dock district, flooding a key parking lot and streets, and keeping customers away.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Those same merchants are represented by powerful House Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel), long a champion on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action. Several of them sent Busch a letter late last month urging him to set a bold example by pushing Maryland further past fossil fuels. "Our families have less money" because of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , they wrote. "Our downtown waterfront is losing its future, and commercial spaces are literally growing vacant with 'for lease' signs out front."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Making matters more urgent is President Trump. His reckless tariffs on solar panels and on steel and aluminum - combined with other factors - are putting solar workers out of business in Maryland. Last year, the state lost 800 solar jobs, according to the Maryland-Delaware-D.C. Solar Energy Industries Association. The industry says that, without passage of the Clean Energy Jobs Act, many hundreds more jobs will be lost in 2019. These are vital crew members on our collective ship, but they are being swept right off the decks. We need to rescue them, grow their numbers and put them to work.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inevitably, there are those legislators who ignore the economic costs of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and instead complain about the cost of clean energy. Thankfully, another Republican administration, that of Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, has settled that matter. Hogan's top environmental agency commissioned recent studies that show the Clean Energy Jobs Act, combined with other reasonable 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policies, would expand employment in the state and grow our economy. Win, win, win.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Annapolis, 2019 is already shaping up to be a good year for the environment. A bill to ban foam food containers is likely to pass, and so is one that would preserve oyster sanctuaries in the Chesapeake Bay. But with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists shouting alarms from the crow's nest, it would be shocking if Maryland did nothing more.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There is no other choice. From shopkeepers to solar workers to NASA scientists, the voices of reason keep rising above the storm, urging the General Assembly to take its biggest step yet on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone : Pass the Clean Energy Jobs Act. And do it now.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mike Tidwell is executive director of the Chesapeake 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Action Network. Karla Raettig is executive director of the Maryland League of Conservation Voters.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 10, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Students worldwide march for action on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 17, 2019 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A08
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01581 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Griff Witte;Sarah Kaplan;Brady Dennis
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0BERLIN
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 BERLIN - A movement that began with a single teenager protesting outside the Swedish parliament last summer became a global phenomenon Friday, as   hundreds of thousands of students worldwide skipped school and took to the streets to demand urgent action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Starting in the South Pacific and moving west with the sun, the protests blanketed grand city centers and humble village squares, national parliament buildings and tiny town halls. The demonstrations stretched to every continent, across more than 100 countries and 1,700 locations, from India to South Africa to Greenland.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The coordinated demonstrations were planned as the largest manifestation to date of the Fridays for Future movement, in which students forgo classes each week in favor of something they have said is more important: pleading for action on an issue that will affect every person on the planet, but young people most of all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You're stealing our future!" a crowd of some 20,000 demonstrators chanted Friday outside the German government ministry in Berlin.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The adults most responsible for the ravages of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  "are going to be gone soon enough," said 14-year-old Ashton Cassa, who was on the streets of Sydney on Friday with an estimated 30,000 other Australians. "It is up to us kids to make a difference." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In New York, so many young protesters gathered outside city hall, chanting and pumping their fists, that they spilled into the nearby bike lane and street.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is not a lie," they chanted. "We won't let our planet die."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Camilo Budet, a 5-year-old kindergartner from Brooklyn, came with his mother. He carried a sign almost as large as he was, which read, "Stop polluting now."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Peter Yarrow, of the 1960s folk trio folk trio Peter, Paul and Mary, led the group in a song. "Let the children lead," he said, as the young crowd echoed him. "That's what we need."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Montreal, a crowd of several thousand young people gathered at a park near McGill University before marching downtown. As some students drummed or blew air horns, demonstrators of all ages carried homemade signs, most written in French.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The future belongs to us," said Federico Mazziotti, 25, a student at one of Quebec's state universities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In San Francisco, middle and high school students from around the Bay Area filled a downtown plaza. "Ain't no power like the power of the youth, cause the power of the youth don't stop!" they chanted in unison.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Everyone thinks that education comes first, and education is really important, but this is important too," said Kristen Khyzoma, 16, who left during her second period class Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On a springlike day in Washington, groups of friends and schoolmates began assembling on the Capitol lawn about 11:30 a.m. They brought giant beach balls to bounce around the crowd and wands to blow soap bubbles. Some lounged on multicolored parachutes the organizers had set up on the grass.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There are people in that building who are leaving behind a mess for us, for our generation to clean up," 13-year-old Arkadi Vidales said, gesturing to the Capitol dome. "We need to do something about it - now."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Despite their frustration, the protesters across the globe Friday delivered their dire messages in a largely peaceful way, but also with exasperation and a sense of urgency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 U.N. researchers have said the world has only the next dozen years to sharply curb carbon dioxide emissions and head off the more catastrophic impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , such as rising seas that inundate cities, crop failures that spawn famines and more severe weather-related disasters that ravage communities and cause billions of dollars in damage.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But politicians remain far apart in their efforts to address global warming. President Trump has vowed to withdraw the United States from an international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord signed in 2015. And many countries that remain are far from meeting their pledges to reduce carbon emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Since our leaders are behaving like children, we will have to take the responsibility they should have taken long ago," Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teen who launched the movement, told a U.N. 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  gathering in December in a speech that, with equal parts clarity and audacity, rocketed her to fame. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't want your hope," Thunberg told the world's elite at an economic forum in Davos, Switzerland, a month later. "I want you to panic."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 16-year-old, who started protesting by herself in Stockholm, has inspired young people around the world to follow her example. Protests have been especially large in European capitals, but Friday's demonstrations included large gatherings in nearly every corner of the globe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The first day I sat, I was all alone," Thunberg has said. Now, "it's amazing to talk to these people who are doing the same thing and fighting for the same cause . . . all around the world."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Parents, educators and other adults also joined the throngs of student protesters Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Washington, Adam Siegel came to the strike with his 14-year-old daughter, Leah, a student at McLean High School. "This is a form of education," he said. "This is civil action. . . . This is citizenship."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The young people behind the strikes leveraged the power of social media to plan and organize the worldwide rallies, and on Friday they enthusiastically marched on the front lines, bullhorns in hand.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 An estimated 150,000 people turned out in dozens of demonstrations across Australia. Somewhat smaller protests unfolded in cities across Asia. In Europe, capitals such as Berlin, Paris and London were filled with placard-wielding students who had packed into trains and subways to reach the demonstrations. Tens of thousands of people were estimated to have turned out in each of those cities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Large groups also turned out in New York, Washington and some other U.S. cities in roughly three dozen U.S. states.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some said the demonstrations have become so popular that to be in school on a Friday during a protest was the exception, not the norm. "The last time, only four people were left in class, and I didn't want to be one of them," said 18-year-old Berlin resident Enrico Csonka.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Paris, the march started at the Place du Panth\'e9on, the site of the French Republic's mausoleum for its most cherished citizens. The students climbed atop bus stations, hung onto streetlights and chanted: "One, two, three degrees. It's a crime against humanity." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A large, boisterous crowd - chanting, "Solutions, not pollution" - marched through central London, weaving by landmarks such as Downing Street and Buckingham Palace.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Friday marked 13-year-old Alexandria Villasenor's 14th week striking in front of the United Nations headquarters in New York. Since December, she had sat there mostly alone through rain, snow and the polar vortex.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On Friday, she wasn't alone anymore.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Today, we are declaring the era of American 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  denialism over," she declared to the morning's crowd outside the United Nations, reading a speech she had handwritten on loose-leaf paper. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For all the urgency and fervor among the young people filling streets, real questions remain about whether their protests will spur action from policymakers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Thunberg and others have said they were inspired by students from Parkland High School who became activists after last year's deadly shooting at their school. But those efforts, along with a massive youth-led demonstration last year in favor of stronger gun laws, known as March for Our Lives, have not yet led to meaningful legislation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One of Friday's first planned demonstrations - in Christchurch, New Zealand - was cut short when heavily armed gunmen attacked two mosques. The massacre of at least 49 people brought together two scourges that have been the ominous background to young people's lives worldwide: mass shootings and a warming planet.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many young 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  advocates in the United States have said they want to see the  Green New Deal - or pieces of it - embraced by lawmakers. But so far, Democrats have remained divided over the ambitious proposals, and many Republicans, including Trump, have mocked them as absurdly expensive while also questioning the scientific consensus around man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Still, the teens have won the backing of many leading environmental groups, including Greenpeace, the Sunrise Movement and 350.org. This month, more than 250 scientists released a letter of support for the school strikes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Europe, where the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strikes have been filling plazas in capital cities for months, leaders such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel have endorsed the movement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But other politicians have mocked it. Christian Lindner, leader of a pro-business party in Germany, urged students to stay in school, saying that "politics is for professionals."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Washington on Friday, the young people gathered on Capitol Hill had a message for the politicians inside: Get moving.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Standing toward the back of the crowd, 16-year-old Jerome Nkugwa spoke about how the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are expected to grow more severe over time. He nodded toward the Capitol.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Something worse is coming," said Nkugwa. "We came out to remind them to do something about it."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 griff.witte@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sarah.kaplan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Dennis reported from Washington and Kaplan from New York. Karla Adam in London, Luisa Beck in Berlin, James McAuley in Paris, A. Odysseus Patrick in Sydney, Selena Ross in Montreal, Natalie Jones in San Francisco and Marissa Lang and Chris Mooney in Washington contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 17, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Students worldwide march for action on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 16, 2019 Saturday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A04
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01581 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Griff Witte;Sarah Kaplan;Brady Dennis
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0BERLIN
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 BERLIN - A movement that began with a single teenager protesting outside the Swedish parliament last summer became a global phenomenon Friday, as   hundreds of thousands of students worldwide skipped school and took to the streets to demand urgent action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Starting in the South Pacific and moving west with the sun, the protests blanketed grand city centers and humble village squares, national parliament buildings and tiny town halls. The demonstrations stretched to every continent, across more than 100 countries and 1,700 locations, from India to South Africa to Greenland.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The coordinated demonstrations were planned as the largest manifestation to date of the Fridays for Future movement, in which students forgo classes each week in favor of something they have said is more important: pleading for action on an issue that will affect every person on the planet, but young people most of all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You're stealing our future!" a crowd of some 20,000 demonstrators chanted Friday outside the German government ministry in Berlin.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The adults most responsible for the ravages of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  "are going to be gone soon enough," said 14-year-old Ashton Cassa, who was on the streets of Sydney on Friday with an estimated 30,000 other Australians. "It is up to us kids to make a difference." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In New York, so many young protesters gathered outside city hall, chanting and pumping their fists, that they spilled into the nearby bike lane and street.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is not a lie," they chanted. "We won't let our planet die."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Camilo Budet, a 5-year-old kindergartner from Brooklyn, came with his mother. He carried a sign almost as large as he was, which read, "Stop polluting now."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Peter Yarrow, of the 1960s folk trio folk trio Peter, Paul and Mary, led the group in a song. "Let the children lead," he said, as the young crowd echoed him. "That's what we need."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Montreal, a crowd of several thousand young people gathered at a park near McGill University before marching downtown. As some students drummed or blew air horns, demonstrators of all ages carried homemade signs, most written in French.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The future belongs to us," said Federico Mazziotti, 25, a student at one of Quebec's state universities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In San Francisco, middle and high school students from around the Bay Area filled a downtown plaza. "Ain't no power like the power of the youth, cause the power of the youth don't stop!" they chanted in unison.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Everyone thinks that education comes first, and education is really important, but this is important too," said Kristen Khyzoma, 16, who left during her second period class Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On a springlike day in Washington, groups of friends and schoolmates began assembling on the Capitol lawn about 11:30 a.m. They brought giant beach balls to bounce around the crowd and wands to blow soap bubbles. Some lounged on multicolored parachutes the organizers had set up on the grass.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There are people in that building who are leaving behind a mess for us, for our generation to clean up," 13-year-old Arkadi Vidales said, gesturing to the Capitol dome. "We need to do something about it - now."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Despite their frustration, the protesters across the globe Friday delivered their dire messages in a largely peaceful way, but also with exasperation and a sense of urgency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 U.N. researchers have said the world has only the next dozen years to sharply curb carbon dioxide emissions and head off the more catastrophic impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , such as rising seas that inundate cities, crop failures that spawn famines and more severe weather-related disasters that ravage communities and cause billions of dollars in damage.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But politicians remain far apart in their efforts to address global warming. President Trump has vowed to withdraw the United States from an international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord signed in 2015. And many countries that remain are far from meeting their pledges to reduce carbon emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Since our leaders are behaving like children, we will have to take the responsibility they should have taken long ago," Greta Thunberg, the Swedish teen who launched the movement, told a U.N. 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  gathering in December in a speech that, with equal parts clarity and audacity, rocketed her to fame. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't want your hope," Thunberg told the world's elite at an economic forum in Davos, Switzerland, a month later. "I want you to panic."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The 16-year-old, who started protesting by herself in Stockholm, has inspired young people around the world to follow her example. Protests have been especially large in European capitals, but Friday's demonstrations included large gatherings in nearly every corner of the globe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The first day I sat, I was all alone," Thunberg has said. Now, "it's amazing to talk to these people who are doing the same thing and fighting for the same cause . . . all around the world."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Parents, educators and other adults also joined the throngs of student protesters Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Washington, Adam Siegel came to the strike with his 14-year-old daughter, Leah, a student at McLean High School. "This is a form of education," he said. "This is civil action. . . . This is citizenship."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The young people behind the strikes leveraged the power of social media to plan and organize the worldwide rallies, and on Friday they enthusiastically marched on the front lines, bullhorns in hand.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 An estimated 150,000 people turned out in dozens of demonstrations across Australia. Somewhat smaller protests unfolded in cities across Asia. In Europe, capitals such as Berlin, Paris and London were filled with placard-wielding students who had packed into trains and subways to reach the demonstrations. Tens of thousands of people were estimated to have turned out in each of those cities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Large groups also turned out in New York, Washington and some other U.S. cities in roughly three dozen U.S. states.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some said the demonstrations have become so popular that to be in school on a Friday during a protest was the exception, not the norm. "The last time, only four people were left in class, and I didn't want to be one of them," said 18-year-old Berlin resident Enrico Csonka.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Paris, the march started at the Place du Panth\'e9on, the site of the French Republic's mausoleum for its most cherished citizens. The students climbed atop bus stations, hung onto streetlights and chanted: "One, two, three degrees. It's a crime against humanity." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A large, boisterous crowd - chanting, "Solutions, not pollution" - marched through central London, weaving by landmarks such as Downing Street and Buckingham Palace.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Friday marked 13-year-old Alexandria Villasenor's 14th week striking in front of the United Nations headquarters in New York. Since December, she had sat there mostly alone through rain, snow and the polar vortex.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On Friday, she wasn't alone anymore.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Today, we are declaring the era of American 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  denialism over," she declared to the morning's crowd outside the United Nations, reading a speech she had handwritten on loose-leaf paper. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For all the urgency and fervor among the young people filling streets, real questions remain about whether their protests will spur action from policymakers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Thunberg and others have said they were inspired by students from Parkland High School who became activists after last year's deadly shooting at their school. But those efforts, along with a massive youth-led demonstration last year in favor of stronger gun laws, known as March for Our Lives, have not yet led to meaningful legislation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One of Friday's first planned demonstrations - in Christchurch, New Zealand - was cut short when a heavily armed gunman attacked two mosques. The massacre of at least 49 people brought together two scourges that have been the ominous background to young people's lives worldwide: mass shootings and a warming planet.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many young 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  advocates in the United States have said they want to see the  Green New Deal - or pieces of it - embraced by lawmakers. But so far, Democrats have remained divided over the ambitious proposals, and many Republicans, including Trump, have mocked them as absurdly expensive while also questioning the scientific consensus around man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Still, the teens have won the backing of many leading environmental groups, including Greenpeace, the Sunrise Movement and 350.org. This month, more than 250 scientists released a letter of support for the school strikes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Europe, where the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strikes have been filling plazas in capital cities for months, leaders such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel have endorsed the movement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But other politicians have mocked it. Christian Lindner, leader of a pro-business party in Germany, urged students to stay in school, saying that "politics is for professionals."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Washington on Friday, the young people gathered on Capitol Hill had a message for the politicians inside: Get moving.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Standing toward the back of the crowd, 16-year-old Jerome Nkugwa spoke about how the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are expected to grow more severe over time. He nodded toward the Capitol.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Something worse is coming," said Nkugwa. "We came out to remind them to do something about it."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 griff.witte@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sarah.kaplan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Dennis reported from Washington and Kaplan from New York. Karla Adam in London, Luisa Beck in Berlin, James McAuley in Paris, A. Odysseus Patrick in Sydney, Selena Ross in Montreal, Natalie Jones in San Francisco and Marissa Lang and Chris Mooney in Washington contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 16, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 An audacious plan to stop climate change calls for remaking the whole economy
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 October 20, 2019 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B07
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01345 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0David Grinspoon
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  disruption looms, and we are dithering. We are in need of a vision. You can be forgiven the occasional moment of paralyzing despair. But then snap out of it, because we've got work to do. But what exactly? We'd all love to see the plan.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Some say technical wizardry and unleashed market forces can come to our rescue, as green entrepreneurs chase the gold of alternative energy. But in "On Fire: The (Burning) Case for a Green New Deal," Naomi Klein makes a keenly argued, well-researched and impassioned case for why market capitalism cannot get us out of this mess and the only way to avert a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  breakdown is to undertake a radical reset of our entire economy. This will require a vast expansion of public investment, including sectors far beyond those directly associated with energy and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  resilience, such as health care, education and labor rights. Given that Klein was promoting a similar program before she explicitly tied it to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action, one has to ask whether this truth is a little too convenient. In "The Shock Doctrine" (2007), she described "disaster capitalism," in which corporations and the politicians they control never let a good crisis go to waste, using the pretext of emergencies to achieve neoliberal goals of privatization and erosion of the public sphere. Here it's fair to ask if Klein and her colleagues in the Green New Deal movement are practicing "disaster socialism," seeking to use the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  threat to vastly expand the role of government and quash corporate influence. Klein enthuses that "battling 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a once-in-a-century chance to build a fairer and more democratic economy," and she doesn't mince words about her belief that "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  supercharges the preexisting case for virtually every progressive demand on the books, binding them into a coherent agenda based on a clear scientific imperative."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Is the Green New Deal a plot to use the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  emergency as a pretense for socialism? Klein is well aware of this accusation. She makes her best case for why an effective societal response to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis must include a rejuvenation of genuine democracy that wrests power from the petrochemical and extractive industries; forces a more equitable distribution of resources; subsidizes massive new investments in energy, transit and housing infrastructure; and protects those whose lives are upended by the rapid economic transition. Parts of the argument are somewhat strained. Yes, we need comprehensive health-care reform, but does it absolutely have to be part of a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  package? Klein insists it does because an improved and fairer health system will help Americans weather the necessary economic dislocations and the expected increase in natural disasters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Is the only plausible way to avert a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  breakdown a full transformation of our society from corporate to social democracy? Can't we put out the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  fire first and then get the rest of our house in order? I don't think this book will convince anyone who is not already fairly open to these ideas. Klein is not subtle about applying her ideological lens to the problem. However, if you are sympathetic to the goals of the Green New Deal but are as yet unconvinced, as I was before reading "On Fire," you need to read this book. Klein marshals the most powerful arguments for why 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  cannot be effectively addressed without a simultaneous deep reckoning with our society's other ills of wealth and income inequality, racial discrimination, and crumbling infrastructure.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As a scientist I was on the lookout for misrepresentations. It is, of course, not strictly true that "science says that political revolution is our only hope." (Wouldn't it be great if science could give us a blueprint for how to organize ourselves as a society?) But science does tell us that our current course, absent a radical and rapid 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in our energy supplies, will lead to disaster. I am bothered by the fetishization of somewhat arbitrary deadlines, as in: "We are fighting for our lives. And we don't have twelve years anymore; now we have only eleven. And soon it will be just ten." But we are facing an existential threat, and perhaps the repetition of these numbers will help people appreciate the urgency, which is real. Basic quantitative reasoning confirms one of Klein's central arguments - that the survival of a healthy biosphere on this finite planet is inconsistent with an economic system dependent on continuous growth. Whether or not one accepts every detail of the Green New Deal as currently conceived, it is hard to deny that a successful fix to the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis will involve a radical reduction in corporations' influence over our political process.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Klein's tone is urgent but hopeful. She reminds us that looming disaster can sometimes bring out the best in people, awakening transformative impulses in the nick of time. She highlights the work of inspiring young activists to show us that no future is written in stone and that we have the choice, and the obligation, to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  course. She sketches an alternative future, possibly within our grasp, which is imaginative and inspiring, a world where "day-to-day life for working people has been improved in countless ways, with more time for leisure and art, truly accessible and affordable public transit and housing, yawning racial and gender wealth gaps closed at last, and city life that is not an unending battle against traffic, noise and pollution." The Green New Deal draws upon Roosevelt's New Deal as historical analogy and proof-of-concept that we are capable of responding to crisis with creative transformation. Klein proposes that once again, government-supported artists should play a vital role, helping us imagine and realize our societal renovation as Works Progress Administration artists did in the 1930s.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although Klein and the Green New Deal will be accused of building a Trojan horse for socialism, in the vision laid out in "On Fire," capitalism is not discarded, just somewhat tamed. Klein talks about "democratic eco-socialism," but the examples she holds up are Sweden and Denmark, places where capitalism is alive and well. The future United States she describes is not Venezuela. The pursuit of wealth is not eliminated, but obscene excess is constrained, with resources channeled back into supporting infrastructure for a cleaner, fairer economy and safety nets for those displaced in the transition. The market is alive but defanged. There's still room in this picture for entrepreneurship and competition, with riches coming to those who can invent an efficient carbon-sucking widget. They would just have to pay their workers a decent wage and give back a fair share. Maybe it will really be all of the above: green capitalism chasing a new alternative gold rush within the sturdy guardrails provided by a strengthened public sector.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's not enough to lament the world we would have had if we had acted sooner or to picture the future we want to avoid. We need something to aspire to, to work toward. Dwight Eisenhower famously said that plans are useless but planning is indispensable. But here the plan is essential. It is lacking in detail, grandiose and surely flawed in some respects. But the people need a vision, and "On Fire" challenges us to choose the Green New Deal or try to find a better one - in a hurry. At present it is still a vague outline, not a detailed policy proposal. But this plan, or some version of it, is going to be part of our urgent national and international conversation on this most pressing of issues. Reading this book will equip you to enter into that dialogue with a rich understanding of the rationale. Klein lays it out vehemently and clearly for us to debate, adapt and improve upon if necessary. Time is of the essence, and we'd better choose right.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  David Grinspoon  is a senior scientist at the Planetary Science Institute and the author of "Earth in Human Hands: Shaping Our Planet's Future."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 ON FIRE
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 The (Burning) Case for a Green New Deal
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 By Naomi Klein
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Simon & Schuster. 308 pp. $27
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0October 20, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fearing climate change, student activists push universities to stop investing in fossil fuel firms
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 February 25, 2020 Tuesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0HEALTH; Pg. E02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0553 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Students alarmed by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are stepping up pressure on universities to pull investments from fossil fuel industries, an effort that is gaining traction at prestigious schools such as Georgetown, Harvard and Yale. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The push at hundreds of schools began nearly a decade ago, and student activists increasingly have learned from one another's tactics and moved to act amid worsening predictions about the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on the planet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Georgetown University's board of directors announced this month that it will end private investments in coal, oil and gas companies within the next decade, and some faculty at Harvard have called for a similar shift. There were sit-ins and demonstrations recently at dozens of schools, including Gonzaga University, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Pittsburgh and Cornell University.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Several dozen schools have stopped investing at least partially in fossil fuels, but there is debate over how much the move slows the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  or affects the bottom line of companies such as Chevron and Exxon Mobil.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many schools have defended their investments, citing a duty to preserve and grow the income they receive from donations, while touting efforts to use investments as leverage to engage energy companies, find solutions for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  through research and make campuses carbon neutral by not causing any net increases in heat-trapping carbon dioxide. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For student activists, it's about taking a moral and political stand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  The campus actions are part of a broader push for insurers, pension funds and governments worldwide to end fossil fuel investments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Environmentalist and author Bill McKibben, a leader of the movement to stop such investments, said students have played a huge role. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'They've kept it up through two generations of undergraduates. Administrators hoped they'd graduate and that would be the end of the pressure, but instead it keeps building,' said McKibben, a scholar in residence at Middlebury College, which announced last year it would divest its $1.1 billion endowment from fossil fuels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Student government leaders from the Big Ten Conference called last month for their 14 schools to begin divesting from fossil fuels, passing a resolution that cited the conclusion of the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that greenhouse gas emissions are driving 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A challenge for institutions is the prevalence of investments in index funds, which makes it difficult to separate out the roughly 4-percent of energy stocks in such funds, said John Jurewitz, a lecturer in economics at Pomona College. Colleges pulling their investments also wouldn't likely hurt oil companies, which have their own internal cash flows, he said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'It's mainly a political statement about what the university is willing to invest in,' Jurewitz said. 'It may be a worthwhile statement if you believe it will help get the ball rolling toward getting some realistic, meaningful policy like a carbon tax or cap and trade, something that will put a price on the carbon in some practical way.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Independent Petroleum Association of America has pushed back with its own campaign, arguing divestment would cost university endowments millions of dollars a year with little effect on carbon emissions. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 " Associated Press
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0February 25, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 As climate changes, so do company lines
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 16, 2019 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0BUSINESS; Pg. G05
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01301 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In the wake of grave reports, businesses are amending their policies
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Lindblad Expeditions has made its name as a leader in responsible tourism, taking its ships to sensitive areas such as the Galapagos, Alaska and Antarctica. But to get to those destinations, its 13 ships have been burning enough fuel to account for nearly all of the 50,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide it creates every year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This month , Lindblad said it would offset 100 percent of its carbon footprint by investing in projects that will reduce emissions elsewhere. The carbon offsets, or carbon credits, will include solar projects in Mexico and India, wind power in Vietnam, reforestation efforts in Peru and Zimbabwe, and a cookstove project in Rwanda.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sven Lindblad, chief executive and founder of Lindblad Expeditions, said in a statement that "global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is arguably the greatest threat humanity has ever faced," adding that "we all need to urgently step up our efforts whether big or small."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many U.S. companies are taking note of the urgency of recent 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  reports and are 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  corporate policies. From carbon credits to eco-labeling to energy use, companies are responding to warming temperatures and consumer concerns. Those that do not can run into unflattering public relations issues, as Procter & Gamble recently discovered when it was accused by an environmental group of cutting down trees in Canadian boreal forests to make Charmin toilet paper.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a survey by the consulting firm Deloitte, 84 percent of business decision-makers said they were aware of grave U.S. and global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  reports issued in late 2018. And two-thirds of those familiar with the reports have reviewed or 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  their energy management strategies in response, the survey said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Those companies, for example, have directed more of their energy purchases toward wind and solar, especially as those sources become cheaper than fossil-fuel-driven power.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Half of the business decision-makers surveyed by Deloitte said that cutting costs was their top priority, but 39 percent said they made some decisions because they were just the "right thing to do," an increase of 11 percentage points over the previous Deloitte survey.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The poll covered 600 business decision-makers at companies with 250 or more employees, as well as 1,500 individual utility customers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Business is all in," said Marlene Motyka, a principal at Deloitte focused on renewable energy. "They are looking to reduce costs and set goals across the spectrum."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Stanley Porter, a Deloitte vice chairman focused on U.S. energy and industrial firms, said that when it comes to renewable energy, "technology has increased the options. And technology has increased their visibility."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Microsoft is one of those companies. Since 2009, Microsoft has made commitments to shrink its carbon footprint. But in April, company president Brad Smith said in a statement that "the magnitude and speed of the world's environmental 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  have made it increasingly clear that we must do more."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Smith said that the tech behemoth would nearly double its seven-year-old internal carbon fee to $15 a metric ton, subjecting its own project evaluations to a test that is not yet government policy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The company will also trim carbon associated with construction materials and slash carbon-intensive electricity use. It hit renewable-energy targets for its data centers well ahead of schedule and has set a new target so that renewable energy will make up at least 70 percent of its usage by 2023, Smith said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, has also found shifts in corporate attitudes and choices related to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - even as the Trump administration denies the existence of a problem.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The risk and the threat is here. It's now, and it's urgent," said Bruno Sarda, president of CDP. "It requires action that goes faster than the current trajectory. The risk of inaction is greater and is likely severely underpriced. The good news is we do believe there's a lot of benefit to be gained."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 CDP said that 225 of the world's 500 biggest companies say that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could generate more than $2.1 trillion of potential new business. More than half of that money would flow to financial institutions, which can move money into low-carbon projects and manufacturing. And more than a quarter of the money could flow into manufacturing ventures, such as electric-car makers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "What business is telling us is that they see a lot of upside in pursuing that transition," Sarda said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 CDP was founded in 2000. At the time, 245 companies provided information about their impact on the environment at the request of 35 major investors. Today, more than 7,000 companies provide information on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , water supplies and deforestation at the request of 525 investors with $96 trillion in assets.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Companies see huge risks - and see them coming within the next five years. CDP said companies think that about $970 billion in assets are at risk. Approximately $250 billion of that would be linked to writing off assets, including "stranded assets" that will no longer be needed as a result of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Those could include fossil fuel reserves or power plants that might be shelved as the planet moves to a low-carbon economy, CDP said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As companies look to curb the pace of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , they are vowing to take steps now. Many of them are retailers or food and beverage companies that are sensitive to consumer pressure, as well.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In March, U.S. retailer Target pledged to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions by 30 percent below its 2017 base. Target said the reductions would apply to emissions from its operations, to direct purchases of things such as electricity and to its extended independent supply chain. Target first made disclosures about its greenhouse-gas emissions in 2010, but it has earned lackluster scores from CDP.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In April, mobile-phone company T-Mobile said it would reduce emissions from its wholly owned operations and direct purchases by 95 percent by 2025 from a 2016 base. T-Mobile said it would also reduce emissions from suppliers by 15 percent per customer by 2025 from a 2016 base year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While many companies see opportunities, others are under pressure to do more.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 P&G's Charmin brand is marketing a new "Forever Roll" that comes in a giant size designed to last a month. The roll contains 850 sheets and has a diameter of 8.7 inches. It's also available in a 12-inch-diameter roll. The classic Charmin Ultra Strong roll has 286 sheets.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Natural Resources Defense Council said that the "issue with the tissue" was that P&G was relying on trees from Canada's boreal forests, undisturbed areas that store large quantities of carbon.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "By cutting down trees in these intact areas, industry forever 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the ecosystem, unleashing the carbon stored in the soil," said Shelley Vinyard, an NRDC campaign manager. She said P&G - along with Kimberly-Clark and Georgia-Pacific - should use recycled paper.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 P&G vice president for global communications Damon Jones said in an email that 100 percent of its wood fiber supply comes from third parties certified by groups such as the Forest Stewardship Council. "We do not participate in any deforestation practices, and for every tree we use, at least one is regrown," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But NRDC's Vinyard said that some other third-party certification groups have loopholes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Furthermore, because boreal trees grow so slowly, it often takes decades for the replanted trees to come close to any semblance of the prior undisturbed forest," she said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 P&G's Jones said the company had a responsibility to make sure "no one has to choose between the products they use and enjoy today and what they hope to preserve for tomorrow."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Vinyard, unconvinced, said the company was "flushing forests down the toilet."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 17, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 World needs a huge carbon tax by 2030 to limit climate change, IMF says
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 October 11, 2019 Friday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A14
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01063 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chris Mooney;Andrew Freedman
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 A global agreement to make fossil-fuel burning more expensive is urgent and the most efficient way of fighting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , an International Monetary Fund study found on Thursday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The group found that a global tax of $75 per ton by 2030 could limit the planet's warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), or about double what it is now. That would greatly increase the price of fossil-fuel-based energy - especially from the burning of coal - but the economic disruption could be offset by routing the money raised straight back to citizens.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If you compare the average level of the carbon tax today, which is $2 [a ton], to where we need to be, it's a quantum leap," said Paolo Mauro, deputy director of the fiscal affairs department at the IMF.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  The IMF report comes as financial institutions increasingly grapple with the risks associated with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , including damage from sea-level rise, extreme weather events and the loss of billions of dollars worth of fossil-fuel reserves that could not be burned while also limiting warming. The Federal Reserve, for example, is taking a closer look at how 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  may pose a risk to economic stability.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the United States, a $75 tax would cut emissions by nearly 30 percent but would cause on average a 53 percent increase in electricity costs and a 20 percent rise for gasoline at projected 2030 prices, the analysis in the IMF's Fiscal Monitor found.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But it would also generate revenue equivalent to 1 percent of gross domestic product, an enormous amount of money that could be redistributed and, if spread equally, would end up being a fiscally progressive policy, rather than one disproportionately targeting the poor.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The impact of a $75-per-ton tax would also hit countries differently depending on burning or exporting coal, which produces the most carbon emissions per unit of energy generated when it is burned.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In developing nations such as China, India and South Africa, a $75 carbon tax would reduce emissions even more - by as much as 45 percent - and would generate proportionately more revenue, as high as 3.5 percent of GDP in South Africa's case, the IMF found.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The idea of making it expensive to produce greenhouse gas emissions is hardly new, and has been widely embraced by economists despite the immense political difficulties involved in imposing such taxes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "No environmental economist should disagree with the main argument of the paper: Carbon pricing is the single most powerful tool we have for reducing CO2 emissions from burning fossil fuels, and our current set of policies leaves us nowhere close to meeting our 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  goals," said Marc Hafstead, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy expert with Resources for the Future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But several experts said that the IMF's stance was important even as they noted that the carbon price may need to be a lot higher, rendering an already gigantic lift even more difficult.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kenneth Gillingham, an economics professor at Yale University who worked on environmental issues during a stint on the Obama administration's Council of Economic Advisers, said the IMF's position added to the urgency recent scientific and economic assessments had shown in discussing how to tackle the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problem.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "From my perspective this is an exciting 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in that they're thinking more deeply than they had previously," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But Gillingham said a $75 per ton carbon tax may actually be too low to hold 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to 2 degrees, noting that he had expected the figure to be closer to $100 per ton, given the world's high emissions path.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gernot Wagner, who studies 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy at New York University, agreed. He co-wrote a paper published Monday arguing that a carbon price should start high and gradually be reduced to take into account the costs of future damage from global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If one takes 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risk and uncertainty seriously, the numbers rise much higher still," Wagner said in an email.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Most economists and policymakers have designed carbon tax policies that start relatively low and ramp up quickly over time. Proponents say it would minimize economic hardship for consumers and companies for their past choices while 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  future decisions such as purchases of polluting equipment or automobiles.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Nobel Prize-winning Yale economist William D. Nordhaus has argued that a carbon tax of $300 per ton or even higher might be required.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Their estimate is, in my view, if anything on the low side of what is needed" but on the high side compared with policies being implemented in some countries, Nordhaus said in an email.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Moreover, the latest science suggests the world will sustain massive damage, such as the loss of nearly all coral reefs, even if it holds warming to, or just under, 2 degrees Celsius. To keep warming to just 1.5 degrees Celsius, the carbon tax would have to be even higher, the IMF's Mauro noted, though he said he is not sure how high because the group did not do that analysis.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis is so dire, and public/popular determination to attack it is suddenly so strong and unquenchable, that even $75/ton by 2030 seems far too moderate a target," Charles Komanoff, director of the Carbon Tax Center, wrote in an emailed response to the IMF study.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The IMF report considers not just economic policy options, but the political feasibility of these proposals as well, including how they might affect different segments of society and how to make them more politically palatable, such as by redirecting the revenue to people through tax cuts or direct dividend payments.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It shows that in the Group of 20's largest economies, the tax would raise energy costs by an average of 43 percent for electricity and 14 percent for gasoline in the countries considered.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This reflects the growing recognition that policies that impose financial burdens that fall hardest on a particular segment of society could trigger unintended blowback. France's tax hike on gasoline and diesel, for example, helped spur the violent "yellow vest" protests this year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Noah Kaufman, a research scholar at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy, said the IMF joins "the chorus of organizations, experts and even grass-roots groups of people" calling for more aggressive 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The question is how to spur action, and a group like the IMF has a role to play in making that happen," he said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 andrew.freedman@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0October 11, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Teen girls on front lines of global climate-change fight
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 26, 2019 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A21
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0948 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Sarah Kaplan
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Young women are 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the face of environmental action
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Dana Fisher has studied environmental activism for decades, but the crowds of people who took to the streets Friday to demand aggressive measures against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  were unlike any she'd seen.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 They were young. They were diverse. And they were overwhelmingly girls.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Something different is happening here," the University of Maryland sociologist said. "We have a new wave of contention in society that's being led by women. . . . And the youth 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  movement is leading this generational shift."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a survey of more than 100 U.S. organizers of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strike and nearly 200 participants in Friday's Washington protest, Fisher found that 68 percent of organizers and 58 percent of participants identified as female. People of color made up more than a third of protesters in Washington - a proportion that almost matches the racial demographics of the United States.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These findings jibe with results of a recent poll of American teenagers conducted by The Washington Post and the Kaiser Family Foundation. The poll found that 46 percent of girls said 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was "extremely important" to them personally, compared with 23 percent of boys. At least twice as many black and Hispanic teens participated in school walkouts on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as their white counterparts, and girls were slightly more likely to have attended a walkout than boys.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The female leadership of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strikes represents a significant 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  for a movement that has traditionally been dominated by white men, Fisher said. A 2014 study by the Green Diversity Initiative found that people of color made up about 12 percent of staff members and leadership at nongovernmental environmental organizations and foundations. Thirty percent of top positions in these groups were held by women.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But those numbers may be starting to shift. A follow-up survey in 2018 found that women constituted 52 percent of senior staffs and 40 percent of board members at environmental NGOs, though people of color represented 21 percent of both groups.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The more diverse crowds taking part in Friday's strike reflects a sea 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that has been underway since the Women's March in January 2017, Fisher said. Women are at the helms of many of the liberal activist organizations that have sprung up in recent years, including Indivisible and the Sunrise Movement, she noted.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Marine biologist Ayana Elizabeth Johnson, founder of the Urban Ocean Lab and a speaker at the New York 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strike, said she was "amazed" by the diversity at Friday's event.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Johnson, 39 and black, has long felt that perspectives such as hers were sidelined in environmentalism - a reflection of the overall marginalization of women and people of color in society. But movements such as Black Lives Matter and #MeToo "have opened a lot of doors for new people and new voices," she said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's amazing now to see the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  movement be this nexus for all these different awakenings," she continued. Environmentalists "are realizing we actually do need diversity, not just because it's nice to have, but that's the only way we'll win."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The icon of young 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activism is 16-year-old Greta Thunberg, who sparked the school strike movement when she began protesting alone outside the Swedish parliament more than a year ago.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When the teenager appeared at New York's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  rally Friday, the crowd reacted as if she were the headliner of a rock concert. Tens of thousands of schoolkids waited for hours in sweltering heat to see her speak and yelled her name in unison as she took the stage.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Teen girls of color have been at the forefront of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  movement in the United States. Isra Hirsi, the 16-year-old executive director of Youth 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Strike and daughter of Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), has spoken about how her identity as an African American Muslim drives her activism. The teenager-led environmental justice organization Zero Hour was founded by a Latina high- schooler, Jamie Margolin.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Maybe women can just see things that men can't," said Alexandria Villase\'c3\'b1or, a 14-year-old who has been protesting in front of the United Nations since December and helped spearhead Friday's strike in New York. "We are more likely to believe in 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Johnson said: "You need this willingness to be part of a collective, and to just do what you can with no guaranteed outcome and no even clear rules, and it has been these girls stepping up to try to figure that out."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 According to Fisher's survey, half of the people who attended Friday's protest were college age or younger, and a quarter of them were under 18. Fisher said she had never seen so many young people at a demonstration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Eight in 10 D.C. 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strikers said they had attended another strike or demonstration; nearly 60 percent had attended the March for Our Lives to protest gun violence in 2018.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The strikers were also remarkably civically engaged; the vast majority of organizers and just fewer than half of the D.C. strike participants had contacted an elected official in the past year. More than 60 percent of organizers had participated in a direct action such as the Shut Down DC protests that blocked traffic Monday - a number Fisher called "ridiculously high."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Since . . . the day after President Trump's inauguration, the message has been very clear for left-leaning Americans that they can't sit on their butts and wait for 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," Fisher said. "I think young people have really heard that message, and it was especially clear after the Parkland shooting happened."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They're prepared to use all the tools in the democratic toolbox to push for 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," she added.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 sarah.kaplan@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Emily Guskin contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 26, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Arguments to give a climate-change denier
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 February 4, 2014 Tuesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2014 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0HEALTH; Pg. E02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0779 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Brian Palmer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Environmentalists have a reputation for being self-righteous and a little naggy, which makes them ripe for parody. (Seen "Portlandia"?) The perception that the eco-conscious are trying to take the fun out of life, however, is unfair. It also has some unfortunate consequences: It drives people away. Nagging breeds defiance.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But if you're serious about the environment and want others to share your passion, don't be intimidated by the potential mockery or resistance. There's an extensive body of research on how to persuade those who view science with suspicion - it's called the science of science communication. Much of the work centers on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There is a socially constructed silence around 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," says George Marshall, founder of the 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Outreach and Information Network and author of the forthcoming book "Don't Even Think About It: Why Our Brains Are Wired to Ignore 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Socially negotiated silences grow up around issues that we simply can't agree on. But we have to find a way around this stalemate, because the consequences are monumental. Marshall recommends tweaking your language slightly to make yourself sound less judgmental.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Speak openly of your personal ownership of your convictions," he notes. "Say, 'This is what's important to me, and this is why.' Don't get caught up in the scientific discussion. You're not a scientist, and evidence doesn't persuade people who reject 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . What carries power is your personal conviction as a friend, colleague or neighbor."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  communications research suggests that a person's views are formed in large part by their social network. When a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  rejectionist finds he is surrounded by believers, it eases the path toward 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  his mind. Say that you, too, were once reluctant to accept the idea of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It helps your audience identify with you.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Now you'll need a compelling argument to explain why you came around. As Marshall notes, communications research shows that "because scientists say so" is a loser. (President Obama made this mistake last week in his State of the Union address, when he bluntly declared that "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a fact.")
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Stephan Lewandowsky, who studies this issue at the University of Bristol, offers four arguments that have been shown to appeal to the sort of person who rejects the idea of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 First, frame it as a risk-management issue. We aren't really a society of believers and deniers on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ; our opinions exist on a spectrum. Maybe you're 90 percent sure that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is real, while your neighbor sets the probability at just 20 percent. A disagreement over numbers is easier to discuss than a fundamentally different set of worldviews. Even if there's only a 20 percent chance of rising sea levels, intensifying storm systems and crop failure, we ought to take steps to mitigate the risk. After all, your house probably won't burn down or flood, but you still have homeowners insurance.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Next, talk about nuclear power. "People who are suspicious of hippies and Al Gore accept nuclear as a possible solution," Lewandowsky says. Even if you're personally opposed to nuclear power, this is a handy way to open 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  rejectionists to the idea of managing the risks. From there, you can expand the discussion into other business opportunities that would arise from managing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , like hydrogen-powered cars or possibly solar arrays.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Illness terrifies people of all stripes, so it sometimes helps to emphasize the links between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and disease. "Mosquitoes now live at higher altitudes and spread farther from the tropics than they used to," Lewandowsky says, "and diseases like malaria and dengue are migrating from the equator." Nobody likes malaria, even if they're not so bothered about the possible extinction of polar bears.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If all else fails, bring up the Pentagon. People who reject 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science often find the views of the Department of Defense persuasive, and the Pentagon is extremely concerned about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Large areas of the world will be submerged," Lewandowsky explains, "and residents of Bangladesh and Pacific island nations won't drown silently: They will migrate. Refugees sow the seeds for conflict." The Pentagon is already considering the need to shift resources from traditional combat to humanitarian operations to address these scenarios.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Finally, don't get your hopes up. 
\f1\i\b \ul Changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  someone's mind is a slow, laborious process. Your obstinate uncle, neighbor or colleague isn't going to slow-clap you out of the room after your irresistible 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  argument. All you can do is plant a seed. So go do it.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0February 4, 2014
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 When did 'climate change' become 'clean energy'?
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 29, 2012 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2012 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0813 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maxwell T. Boykoff
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 What happened to "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " and "global warming"?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Earth is still getting hotter, but those terms have nearly disappeared from political vocabulary. Instead, they have been replaced by less charged and more consumer-friendly expressions for the warming planet.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 President Obama's State of the Union address Tuesday\'e2\'88\'9a was a prime time example of this shift. The president said mentioned"
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " just once\'e2\'88\'9a - compared with zero mentions in the 2011 address and two in 2010. When he did utter the phrase, it was he did so merely to acknowledge the polarized atmosphere 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in Washington, saying, \'e2\'88\'9a. The president said: "The differences difference in this chamber may be too deep right now to pass a comprehensive plan to fight 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .\'e2\'88\'9a" By contrast, Obama used the terms "energy" and "clean energy" nearly two dozen times.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That tally reflects a broader 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in how the president talks about the planet. 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A recent Brown University study
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone looked specifically at the Obama administration's language and found that mentions of "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " have been replaced by calls for "clean energy" and "energy independence." Graciela Kincaid, a co-author of the study, wrote: "The phrases '
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ' and 'global warming' have become all but taboo on Capitol Hill. These terms are stunningly absent from the political arena."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In 2009, the Obama administration purposefully began to refer to greenhouse gas emissions as "carbon pollution" and "heat-trapping emissions." This 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is evident in statements from top officials such as White House science adviser John Holdren, Energy Secretary Steven Chu, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration head Jane Lubchenco and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson. Lubchenco 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 told a reporter
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  that the choice of those terms "is intended to make what's happening more understandable and more accessible to non-technical audiences."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 These choices are also reflected in news coverage around the world. My colleague Maria Mansfield and I 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 monitor 50 major newspapers
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone in 20 countries, and we documented that explicit mentions of "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " and "global warming" dropped by more than a third from 2010 to 2011.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There is power in how language is deployed, and people setting policy agendas know this well. In 2002, Republican political strategist Frank Luntz issued a widely cited memo advising that the Bush administration should shift its rhetoric on the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "It's time for us to start talking about '
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ' instead of global warming. . . . '
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ' is less frightening than 'global warming,' " the memo said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Luntz was not alone in wanting to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  the terminology. The nonprofit group EcoAmerica issued a report in 2009 arguing that the terms "global warming" and "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " both needed rebranding. In their place, the group recommended the phrase "our deteriorating atmosphere."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But what do we lose when global warming and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  get repackaged as clean energy? We wind up missing a thorough understanding of the breadth of the problem and the range of possible solutions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To start, talking only about clean energy omits critical biological and physical factors that contribute to the warming  
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . "Clean energy" doesn't call to mind the ways we use the land and how the environment is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Where in the term is the notion of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  pollution that results from clear-cutting Amazon rain forests? What about methane release in the Arctic, where global warming is exposing new areas of soil in the permafrost?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Clean energy" also neatly bypasses any idea that we might need to curb our consumption. If the energy is clean, after all, why worry about how much we're using - or how unequal the access to energy sources might be?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And terms such as "carbon pollution" ignore that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  isn't just a carbon issue. Some greenhouse gases, such as nitrous oxide, do not contain carbon, and not all carbon-containing emissions, such as carbon monoxide, trap heat.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When the president moves away from talking about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and talks more generally about energy, as he did in the State of the Union, calling for "an all-out, all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy," the impact is more than just political.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Calling 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  by another name creates limits of its own. The way we talk about the problem affects how we deal with it. And though some new wording may deflect political heat, it can't alter the fact that, "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " or not, the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 boykoff@colorado.edu
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Maxwell T. Boykoff is an assistant professor in the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research at the University of Colorado at Boulder and the author of "
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Who Speaks for the 
\f1\b Climate
\f4\b0 ? Making Sense of Media Reporting on 
\f1\b Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Read more from 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Outlook
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , friend us on       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Facebook
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , and follow us on       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Twitter
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 29, 2012
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 White House to explore how climate change affects health
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 8, 2015 Wednesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A07
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0752 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Juliet Eilperin
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 President Obama launched an initiative Tuesday aimed at highlighting the connections between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and public health, bringing both medical and data experts to the White House this week.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As part of the effort, the White House will hold a 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Health Summit later this spring, featuring Surgeon General Vivek Murthy. The administration is expanding its 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Data Initiative, which it launched a year ago, to include more than 150 health-relevant data sets.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Speaking to a group at Howard University, which included the school's College of Medicine dean, Edward E. Cornwell III, and Tyra Bryant-Stephens, who directs the community asthma-prevention program at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Obama said that warmer temperatures exacerbate asthma by fueling wildfires that emit fine particles, or soot, into the air, and could shift insect-borne diseases further up into North America.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "And so there are a whole host of public health impacts that are going to hit home," Obama said. "So we've got to do better in protecting vulnerable Americans. Ultimately, though, all of our families are going to be vulnerable. You can't cordon yourself off from air or from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Murthy, who attended the event along with Environmental Protection Agency administrator Gina McCarthy, told the group that asthma is "a personal issue for me" because a favorite uncle died from a severe attack.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "And it's also personal to me because I've cared for many patients over the years who have suffered from asthma and have seen firsthand how frightening it can be to suddenly be wheezing and fighting for every breath," he said. "Asthma can be very difficult for patients, but also for their families. And the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could make this situation worse."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There was also a clear political component to Tuesday's announcement. In a roundtable event at Howard University, Obama met not only with public experts and senior administration officials but also with Eneshal Miller, the mother of a child suffering from asthma. White House senior adviser Brian Deese cited a recent study by the American Thoracic Society finding that 7 out of 10 doctors reported 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is contributing to more health problems among their patients.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "One thing that we know is the most salient arguments around 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are the ones around health impacts and involve meeting people where they are," Deese said in a phone call with reporters Tuesday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As part of that effort, the interagency U.S. Global 
\f1\i\b \ul Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Research Program is releasing a draft 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and Health Assessment report that will detail how public health is influenced by 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in weather extremes, air quality and vector-borne diseases.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Janice Nolen, assistant vice president for national policy at the American Lung Association, noted that studies have found that higher temperatures will exacerbate the formation of ozone, a critical ingredient in smog, in the Northeast and Midwest.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's going to be even more difficult to reduce it with warmer temperatures," Nolen said of ozone. "It's like fighting an uphill battle, where it's going to grow while you're trying to shut it down. That's a huge trigger for asthma attacks as well as premature deaths."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 [READ: Obama to cut federal government's carbon output 40 percent by 2025]
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new initiative will also call on private-sector firms to devise solutions to health-related 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  problems. Microsoft researcher Ethan Jackson told reporters that his company is launching a pilot program to see whether it can use autonomous equipment to monitor the density of mosquitoes in a given areas as a way of detecting a potential disease outbreak before it happens.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Jackson noted that there is clear evidence that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  contributes to "the movement of pathogens and vector-borne diseases. But it is still difficult to predict the time and place where disease will occur."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will also release an "Adaptation in Action Report" on Tuesday to highlight actions that state and local leaders have taken to minimize the health impacts of global warming in New York, San Francisco, Maine, Minnesota, Arizona, Michigan, California and New York state.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A coalition of deans from 30 medical, public health and nursing schools also pledged Tuesday to train their students to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone 's health effects. Those universities include Johns Hopkins, the University of Maryland, Harvard University and the University of Nebraska.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 juliet.eilperin@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 8, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 After another climate change protest, Jane Fonda might turn 82 in city jail
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 21, 2019 Saturday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0METRO; Pg. B02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0696 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Marissa J. Lang
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Jane Fonda may spend her 82nd birthday behind bars.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fonda, who has been leading weekly 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  protests called 'Fire Drill Fridays' since early October, was arrested Friday along with 137 other demonstrators inside the Hart Senate Office Building, where 50 U.S. senators have offices.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Saturday is Fonda's 82nd birthday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As she was led away by a Capitol Police officer, her hands bound by zip ties, a demonstrator called out to the crowd, 'Everybody sing 'Happy Birthday' to Jane!' Fonda pumped her arms above her head in triumph as the crowd broke into song.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The arrest is her fifth in the past three months during demonstrations calling for government action on the environment, a reduction in fossil fuel production and congressional approval of the Green New Deal, an aggressive decade-long plan to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Demonstrators who rack up multiple public-disturbance arrests in a short time are typically held overnight in the D.C. jail and made to appear in front of a judge before they can be set free.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Last month, after Fonda's fourth arrest, she slept on a mattress-less cot in the jail, where she loaned her signature red coat to a fellow shivering inmate inside the drafty building. Upon her release, Fonda said, one of her jailers told her, 'There's gotta be a better way to call attention to your cause.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'I think she's right,' Fonda said as she walked out of the H. Carl Moultrie Courthouse the next day. 'My 82-year-old bones hurt.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fonda had been stepping aside for the past several weeks, encouraging others to be arrested in her stead. Police have arrested several celebrities, including Sally Field and Ted Danson, at the demonstrations. Other activists also have been arrested in droves.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But on Friday, Fonda " whose 1970 raised-fist mug shot has been a symbol of civil disobedience longer than many 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activists have been alive " stepped back into the fray.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The rally began in front of the Capitol, where Fonda led a crowd in chants and song.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As she climbed to a stage on the Capitol lawn, demonstrators greeted the two-time Oscar-winning actress with a round of 'Happy Birthday.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'You may generously say that you came to celebrate my birthday with me in this wonderful activist context, which has gained so much traction " more than I ever imagined " and I appreciate this. But I think we are all here today because we know what lies ahead,' Fonda told the crowd. 'The Earth needs an army.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 She was joined by other longtime activists, including the Rev. William J. Barber, who revived the Poor People's Campaign, which promotes economic justice; Buddhist teacher and civil rights activist Roshi Joan Halifax; labor organizer Dolores Huerta; and feminist activist Gloria Steinem.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Halifax, Barber and Steinem also were arrested. Steinem is 85.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'This is a beginning here. We're going to go back to our communities and we're going to do what Jane Fonda is asking us to do,' said Huerta, 89. 'We're going to give her the best birthday present " ever.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The focus of Friday's demonstration was the health implications of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  " worsening air and water quality, the effects of extreme weather, and trauma tied to an increase in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  refugees.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Dozens of nurses, clad in white coats and signs pinned to them that said, '
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  makes us sick,' also were arrested. They said they came from across the country to make a stand in the nation's capital. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'As nurses, we are not just focused on treatment, we're also focused on prevention,' said Laura Worby, who treats refu gee families in the District. 'Not only should we care about the health impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on our patients now, but we need to be on the front lines of calling for prevention.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Actors Catherine Keener, Matthew McGorry and Casey Wilson were also arrested.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Senators' staff members peered out windows down into the cavernous atrium as the voices of demonstrators filled the room: 'Cops need oxygen, too,' they chanted as police officers encircled them.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Senators need oxygen, too,' they shouted.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As police emptied the marbled hall of protesters one by one, discarded yellow placards spotted the ground. They read: 'Happy 82nd birthday Jane!'
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 marissa.lang@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 21, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Danish Prime Minister Visits Bush Ranch, Pushes for Global Pact on Climate Change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 2, 2008 Sunday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2008 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A05
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0918 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Michael Abramowitz and Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f3\fs20 Washington Post Staff Writers
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0CRAWFORD, Tex., March 1
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The Danish prime minister, the host of the next big international meeting on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , used unusual one-on-one time Saturday with President Bush to press the United States to take a greater leadership role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In an interview and in remarks while visiting Bush at his ranch here for a weekend of bike riding and casual dining, Anders Fogh Rasmussen indicated hopes of reaching a new agreement at Copenhagen next year to replace the expiring Kyoto Protocol with a plan that would set a target for reducing greenhouse gases and create a new global trading system for carbon emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We need a comprehensive global agreement, and American leadership is needed to reach that goal, and American leadership is crucial in order to motivate major economies like India and China to contribute," Rasmussen said after private talks with Bush and top aides.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In his public remarks, Bush was noncommittal, other than to cite the need to develop alternative energy technologies. But an administration spokesman said the president assured Rasmussen in private of his interest in reaching a global warming deal, including binding targets for reductions in emissions -- as long as it includes steps by China, India and other developing countries, as well as  flexibility in how countries meet the targets.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gordon Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said Bush told Rasmussen: "We can agree to targets, but every country decides how to get there."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Bush has indicated he would like to make progress in his final year in office on a global warming pact, but many environmentalists and European countries have been skeptical that Bush will go along with the steps they see as necessary. They believe that the developed world,  such as the United States and Europe, are the major contributors to global warming -- and should commit themselves to reductions regardless of whether  the developing countries go along.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As the prime minister of Denmark, which will host the 2009 United Nations summit on global warming, Rasmussen could play an important role in the ongoing dialogue. He is close to Bush, thanks to his strong support on Iraq and Afghanistan, and is one of a handful of world leaders who has secured a prized invitation to Crawford and Camp David.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In an interview last week with The Washington Post, Rasmussen said that U.S. leadership on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was even more important to Europeans than American withdrawal from Iraq. "A clear signal from the United States that the U.S. will engage itself in the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  process would be valuable in a European context," he said. "It might be much more important . . . than decisions about the number of troops in Iraq."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Kyoto, Japan, the United States had pressed for a cap-and-trade system similar to one in place for sulfur dioxide emissions. The Kyoto Protocol set ceilings on greenhouse gas emissions and allowed companies to buy and trade allowances. Those who emitted less than permitted amounts could sell allowances to those who emitted more. A system was put in place that gave credits to companies that reduced emissions in developing countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the end, the United States did not join the Kyoto system. Europe did, and there is now an active market in greenhouse gas emissions, measured in tons of carbon dioxide, worth tens of billions of dollars a year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the Kyoto accords expire in 2012, and Europeans say that to ensure compliance on emissions widespread enough to make a dent in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , there must be an agreement on new rules in Copenhagen in December 2009.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the past year, Bush has initiated talks with major industrial countries on limiting emissions, but administration officials have suggested that each country might pursue its own method of reducing emissions. Europeans have supported the Bush talks but are worried that they might undermine the U.N.-sponsored process that will culminate in Copenhagen and  that is aimed at coming up with an internationally binding treaty.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We appreciate the president's initiative," said Rasmussen, though he made clear his view that "a new global deal should take place within the framework of the United Nations."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While many environmentalists in the United States have resigned themselves to waiting for a new administration before getting any 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  legislation adopted, Rasmussen said that international negotiators cannot afford to wait.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He said he wants to achieve agreement on several key items this year, while the Bush administration is still in office. Most important: He wants the administration to agree to a target for emissions reduction. The European Union has set a goal of reducing worldwide emissions by 60 percent below the 1990 baseline by 2050. Assuming that developing countries cannot meet that target, the  European Union expects industrialized nations to cut emissions by 80 percent by 2050. Japan has set a target of 50 percent.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We cannot wait for a new administration," he said, noting that it will take time to prepare a treaty and system to reduce carbon emissions. He also alluded to the fact that Sens. Barack Obama (D-Ill.), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) are committed to more aggressive U.S. actions to address the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We follow the election campaign closely," Rasmussen said. "There is a consensus among the remaining three running candidates that the United States should involve itself stronger in the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  process. I think we can build on this."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mufson reported from Washington.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs28 Graphic
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 IMAGE; By Haraz N. Ghanbari -- Associated Press; Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, listening to President Bush, wants the U.S. to take a greater role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 2, 2008
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Time picks best science Twitter feeds; 'Cool It' sees fear in climate-change debateTime picks best science Twitter feeds; 'Cool It' sees fear in climate-change debate
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 5, 2011 Tuesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2011 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0HEALTH; Pg. E03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0259 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Rachel Saslow
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 media 
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Science on your smartphone               140 Best Twitter Feeds, Time
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In honor of microblogging Web site Twitter.com's fifth anniversary, 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Time named the top 140 tweeters
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , including 10 that focus on health and science. The one with the most followers is astrophysicist       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson)
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone with about 130,000. The host of PBS's "NOVA ScienceNOW" series, most of Tyson's tweets are about space, but he's also been known to tweet about wine and ballroom dancing. Time's list also includes nutrition expert       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Marion Nestle (@marionnestle)
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , physician and New Yorker magazine staffer       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Atul Gawande (@Atul_Gawande)
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  and the       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 National Science Foundation (@NSF)
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 climate change
\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Maybe it's a more convenient truth               "Cool It"  DVD, Lionsgate
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Bjorn Lomborg's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  documentary "Cool It" is being pitched as a calming antidote to Al Gore's 2006 "
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 An Inconvenient Truth
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone ." Certainly the movie won't leave viewers in a state of hysteria - maybe a little bored in the cap-and-trade and alternative energy parts, though. Lomborg, a former blogger on The Post's Planet Panel, believes that global warming is a real phenomenon but argues that "fear has been ruling the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  debate" and therefore we're not employing smart tactics to solve it. The most interesting parts are about Lomborg himself, a 46-year-old Dane who calls his mother every day and whose 2001 book "      \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Skeptical Environmentalist
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone " was so controversial that the Danish government investigated (and acquitted) him on charges including  "scientific dishonesty."   
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 - Rachel Saslow
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 5, 2011
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bridging the Gap on Climate Change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 14, 2008 Monday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2008 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0840 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Richard G. Lugar and Henry M. Paulson Jr.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Despite the scientific consensus that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is occurring, there remain sharp political disagreements both here in the United States and around the world about how policymakers should respond. Nowhere is this gap more profound than between developed and developing countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As our vigorous domestic debate shows, there is disagreement within America about whether we should take strong steps to limit greenhouse gas emissions if fast-growing emitters in the developing world do not make similar commitments. Yet nations such as China and India say that fossil fuels are essential to power their economies, raise living standards and pull millions of their people out of poverty. Expanding the use of clean technologies is one way to address the common challenge of reducing greenhouse gas emissions while transcending the differences here at home and between developed and developing countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That is why we support a new multilateral initiative to help finance the deployment of commercially available clean technology to the developing world. This Clean Technology Fund, proposed by President Bush last September, is an important opportunity for which American leadership is vital.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Group of Eight countries, led by the United States, Britain and Japan, in conjunction with the World Bank, have been working with potential donor and recipient countries over the past eight months to create the fund. The aim of the CTF is to reduce the growth of greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries by helping finance the additional costs of using cleaner energy technologies. It will stimulate private-sector investment in existing clean technologies and speed the deployment of emerging technologies once they are market-ready. Such emerging technologies include carbon capture and storage, which separates carbon dioxide before it goes up a smokestack and sequesters it underground.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Equally important, the fund will promote international cooperation to pursue a future 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement. Given the grave economic, security and environmental threats posed by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , such an agreement must prescribe significant long-term reductions in global emissions by requiring commitments from all major emitters in an equitable and flexible way.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The challenge is enormous. The greenhouse gas emissions of developing economies are rising more rapidly and will soon surpass those of developed countries.  The International Energy Agency reports that by 2030 global demand for energy could increase 55 percent, with almost 80 percent of this increase coming from developing countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But each time an emerging economy invests in a cheaper but dirtier technology, the harder and costlier it becomes to mitigate the effects on the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the future. Electric power plants can last 30 years or more. The World Bank estimates that the price of the incremental costs to deploy clean energy technologies in just the power sectors of the developing countries would be $30 billion annually.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The CTF plans to use a mix of loans, grants, equity investment and credit guarantees to finance this incremental cost. For example, if the difference between building a traditional fossil-fuel power plant and a wind farm were $10 million, the fund could help the recipient country finance the wind farm's extra cost. Recipient countries and the private sector would pay the bulk of the cost of such projects, but the fund would help make the choice between clean and dirty technologies economically neutral.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The proposed U.S. contribution of $2 billion would be matched by up to $8 billion from other donors to the fund, which is to be housed at the World Bank. At last week's G-8 summit, the leaders stated their support for the program. The fund recognizes that addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  presents economic opportunities, not just constraints, and that with advanced technology developing countries can curb emissions growth without limiting economic growth.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The program will offer U.S. companies a new market for their technologies in countries that will be searching for cleaner alternatives. As America takes steps to reduce its carbon emissions on a national scale, we expect countries assisted by the CTF to develop credible nationwide carbon mitigation plans and to work constructively toward a successful conclusion to the U.N. 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiations.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This program will pilot concepts and approaches for the post-2012 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  framework and will build trust among developed and developing countries in the U.N. negotiations over that framework. If we do not act immediately to help provide developing countries with the right incentives, their investments today may lock in a legacy of highly polluting, less efficient technologies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We encourage our colleagues in Congress to come together to support this multilateral initiative. It is one of the most significant efforts proposed in years to address the challenges of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Richard G. Lugar is a Republican senator from Indiana. Henry M. Paulson Jr. is secretary of the Treasury.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 14, 2008
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate change protesters block D.C. streets for hours
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 7, 2019 Saturday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0METRO; Pg. B01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01216 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Marissa J. Lang
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  protesters took to the District's streets once again Friday, snarling traffic in rolling protests that meandered through downtown Washington for more than seven hours.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 During the morning rush, they blocked major intersections with bodies and banners, sending cars and buses down winding, alternate routes. Outside the Washington offices of the world's largest asset-management company, they sang songs and chanted to the beat of drums. And for two hours at a Wells Fargo Bank branch, protesters chained themselves to the door " blocking all entrances and exits.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was the latest demonstration led by a coalition of activists that have in recent weeks deployed increasingly confrontational tactics against government agencies, financial institutions and corporations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Last month, the group held a hunger strike in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). In September, the coalition, known as Shut Down DC, set up blockades at 15 downtown intersections and chained themselves to the hull of a boat that was blocks from the White House, culminating in 32 arrests.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Despite hours of disruptions and tense moments between protesters and D.C. police, officials said no arrests were made Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Demonstrators began their day about 7:30 a.m. at George Washington University before marching to the World Bank headquarters along Pennsylvania Avenue NW " blocking major roads on and off for several hours " and then joining actress Jane Fonda's recurring Friday protest to draw attention to private investment firms that finance the fossil fuel industry.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Police tried to keep protesters and traffic moving, with activists stopping occasionally to pull banners across several lanes of traffic. Several drivers gave up and made U-turns to avoid the road closures. Others leaned on their horns or shouted out their windows at protesters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'What do we want?' activists chanted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 '
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  justice!'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'When do we want it?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Now!'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'If we don't get it?'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'You make us late for work, that's what you do,' shouted a passerby, who said the disruption caused her bus to stop and let people off several stops from her destination. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Commuters, who have sat through several rush-hour protests recently, seemed to have lost patience with the demonstrations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A woman in a black SUV idling on the corner of L and 21st streets NW rolled down her window as activists, blocking the street,declared: 'We are Extinction Rebellion. . . . We are ordinary people. We are scared. We care about you and your children.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Enough already,' Courtney Walter, 35, shouted from her car. 'Move!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Walter, a tech firm recruiter who said it typically takes 20 minutes to drive to work from Arlington, said the rally doubled her commute time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'The thing is, I agree with them. We should do more about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ,' Walter said. 'But this is just not considerate. It's making people more angry and frustrated than anything.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As police attempted to move one group out of the center of K Street NW, a man walking past tapped an officer on the shoulder. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Throw them in jail,' he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Protesters took the frustration in stride, chanting in response, 'We're doing this for you! It's your planet, too.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Nick Brana, a spokesman for the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  activists' coalition, said protesters decided to target the World Bank to demand that it 'fully divest from fossil fuels immediately.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A World Bank spokesperson said the organization already has made strides toward a more eco-conscious future by funding renewable energy projects in low- and middle-income countries and committing $17.8-billion to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related investments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The World Bank has not financed a new coal-fired power plant since 2010, the organization said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The number of demonstrators ebbed and flowed throughout the day, with hundreds filling the street at the rally's most boisterous point when it departed Franklin Square.   
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Participants carried signs adorned with fake fire department seals and flames. Some dressed as polar bears. They chanted about polluted rivers and smoggy air and fires in the Amazon rainforest. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One demonstrator, Michael Russell, 28, wore a green gas mask and a bright red Santa suit, with a gray bag marked 'coal' slung over his left shoulder. He was joined by a handful of self-described elves, whose faces were painted like skeletons.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'See, Santa was able to secure a gas mask and survive the apocalypse,' explained Allison Guy, 34. 'But we're just elves. So we had to suffer.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Natalie Boland, 25, said the group thought that, given the season, it would be particularly poignant to see Santa warning against the most dire consequences of pollution and a perceived lack of action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'Around the holidays, we all get consumed with buying gifts and going to parties and eating a lot of food,' Boland said. 'And we forget that humanity is driving itself off a cliff right now.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Friday's demonstration was timed to coincide with the international student-led Youth 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Strike, during which students skip school to call for action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fonda, who wore her signature red coat to the weekly Fire Drill Friday event at which she has become a fixture, led the group to investment firm BlackRock's Washington offices.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As she stood on the building's doorstep, Fonda, 81, raised a fist into the air. Around her, the crowd began to chant: 'Can you hear us?'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'I want to thank the young people,' Fonda said into a megaphone outside the building. 'They have shown us that this has to become the new normal. . . . Don't stop, and we won't stop either.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Friday marked Fonda's ninth consecutive week protesting in the District.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although in October she committed to being arrested at the rally every week for four months, Fonda stopped risking arrest in November after spending a night in the District's jail.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 BlackRock said in a statement that the firm 'believes that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  risk is an important investment risk for our clients, which is why we have conducted groundbreaking research to help them navigate these issues.'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Actresses Kyra Sedgwick, Maura Tierney and Taylor Schilling joined Fonda and several faith leaders at the demonstration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'As this movement is shouting so beautifully, our house is on fire and we are all being impacted,' Schilling said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Faith leaders described 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a moral failing that would hit some of the Earth's most vulnerable people and countries the hardest.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Rev. Noel Andersen of Church World Service said protests and arrests are necessary to get the attention of financial institutions who care about their reputation " and their bottom line.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The demonstration's last stop Friday was a Wells Fargo branch at 13th and I streets NW, where seven protesters sat, their hands chained together, creating a human blockade. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 D.C. police officers surrounded the group as demonstrators cheered. Fonda, who tipped a megaphone over yellow police tape, commended the demonstrators for their willingness to be arrested.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 'I want to thank you for your bravery,' she said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The remainder of the protesters who spilled into the street, carrying large inflatable globes and banners that stretched for yards, chanted, 'Wells Fargo, hey you! We deserve a future, too!'
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 From the windows of the building above, workers pressed their phones to the glass, taking photos of the chaos in the streets below.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 marissa.lang@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 7, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 U.S. Has Dual Task On Climate Change; To Sway Both Congress, Other Nations To Approve Cuts in Greenhouse Gases
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 February 20, 2009 Friday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01255 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Juliet Eilperin
\f0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f3\fs20 Washington Post Staff Writer
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's decision to make her first overseas trip to China, where she arrives today, highlights the daunting tasks the new administration faces as the world scrambles to forge a new 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  treaty this year: trying to persuade emerging economies to make deep cuts in greenhouse-gas releases that they have long resisted while coaxing Congress to adopt first-ever limits on the United States' own emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These two challenges, which are key to securing a deal when 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiators convene December in Copenhagen, mean that President Obama and his deputies must launch a major push abroad and at home on an issue that President George W. Bush only reluctantly addressed. Bush ultimately launched a regular meeting of the world's biggest greenhouse-gas emitters -- an initiative Obama hopes to sustain -- but Bush's unwillingness to commit to binding domestic emissions cuts effectively stalled international efforts to curb global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new administration's campaign is on display this week as Clinton travels to Asia and President Obama journeys to Canada.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is an opportunity waiting to be seized," said Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John F. Kerry (D-Mass.), who held a hearing last month titled "The Road to Copenhagen" and had privately urged Clinton to make her first overseas trip to China to discuss global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Several foreign officials have praised the new administration for its outreach. Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, met with administration officials involved in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  issues during a trip to Washington last week and noted, "They are very much engaged already."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is the year to finalize an agreement," he said. "Everybody is working on that direction, also here. That is the sentiment and the determination they have."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new U.S. 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  envoy, Todd Stern, is traveling with Clinton throughout Asia, and he has met privately with his British counterparts and others.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many developing nations, however, say they are waiting to see whether the United States adopts a binding carbon cap and what emissions cuts it will seek from major emerging economies.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The question is: How will the U.S. engage?" said Marthinus van Schalkwyk, South Africa's minister of environmental affairs and tourism, in a recent interview. "To enable us to move forward, the U.S. must show its hand."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Obama has pledged to cut U.S. emissions back to 1990 levels by 2020 and to 80 percent below that level by 2050. But European and developing nations have called for industrialized nations to cut emissions to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and they are waiting to see whether the United States will enact a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill with ambitious targets by the time negotiators meet to work out a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, the pioneering pact that the United States rejected.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A State Department official familiar with the issue, who requested anonymity under rules set by the department, said top Obama officials recognize the challenge they face.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We are committed to getting a deal done in Copenhagen, and it obviously has to be a deal that the United States can join in," the official said. "The domestic legislation is going to be enormously important in telling us how far we're going to be able to go."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Adopting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  targets that will satisfy other countries entails persuading Democrats and Republicans from the nation's mid-section -- where fossil fuels, manufacturing and automobiles are pivotal to the economy -- to approve legislation that will drive up energy prices, at least in the short term. Many Republicans oppose any mandatory carbon cap, so the administration will have to expend significant political capital to win the necessary votes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't think our political system can handle it. You just have too many senators in the middle," said Bill Kovacs, who heads the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's energy and environment division.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The House Energy and Commerce Committee's top Republican, Joe L. Barton (Tex.), said in an interview that although he and other Republicans can support funding renewable energy and modernizing the nation's electricity grid, they see dozens of moderate Democrats as potential allies in blocking mandatory limits on greenhouse gases. "This is not a good year to be moving that kind of bill, because of the economy," Barton said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One of the central questions negotiators must tackle is how major emerging economies interpret their "common but differentiated responsibilities" under the U.N. Framework Convention on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the 1992 agreement that governs the ongoing global warming talks. That is one of the reasons Clinton is reaching out to China so quickly.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Together, the United States and China account for about 40 percent of all greenhouse-gas emissions: China generates 80 percent of its electricity from coal and has just passed America as the world's biggest single emitter.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kovacs said it was unrealistic to ask Americans to make sacrifices when developing countries' emissions are rising so fast. "If you were to eliminate the entire United States, CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere for the next century would still increase," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kenneth Lieberthal, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution who co-authored a report this month about possible U.S.-China cooperation on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , said that forging a closer working relationship is critical. Collaborating on developing electric vehicles, a cooperative research agenda and carbon sequestration projects, he said, could allow the countries to pursue carbon reductions together.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The U.S.-China side of this is important for each of us domestically, it's important to what we can do cooperatively, and it could be significant for what we could accomplish in the global talks," Lieberthal added.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Barbara Finamore, China program director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said advocacy groups such as hers are looking for more concrete agreements to help China pursue economic growth without harming the environment. She noted the province of Jiangsu, working with the state of California, determined it could eliminate the need for the equivalent of 26 coal-fired power plants over the next two years at no net cost if it replaced aging industrial motors in its factories and adopted other efficiency measures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A key question is whether the United States and other wealthy nations are willing to help finance this low-carbon transition for developing nations. Achim Steiner, executive director of the U.N. Environment Program, said China and India are asking, "Are you willing to help share that cost so we can go to a cleaner future?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The United States must also engage in discussions with some of its closest allies. Under Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Canada has fallen behind on its Kyoto commitments and is backing a plan to cut its total emissions to 3 percent below 1990 levels by 2020.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 After his meeting with Harper yesterday, Obama said he hopes a "dialogue" on science and technology will ease the transition to cleaner fuels. "And through this example and through continued international negotiations, the United States and Canada are committed to confronting the threat posed by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One State Department official said the administration has reason to be optimistic that international leaders will embrace U.S. efforts to forge a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  deal this year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "They're really waiting and hoping and looking for us to do good things, to resume a leadership role and deliver," he said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0February 20, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jay Inslee, likely 2020 contender, wants to tackle climate change - realistically
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 February 26, 2019 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A16
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01021 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0James Hohmann
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D), who is poised to formally announce as early as this week that he is running for president, has held elected office since before Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 29, was born.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Though he said it has felt lonely at times, the 68-year-old has been trying to do something about global warming for almost that entire time. He's learned more from his failures than his successes. Now he hopes that Democratic primary voters will value hard-earned wisdom.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Every 2020 candidate is talking extensively about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in his or her stump speech, but no one else has made it the central rationale for seeking the presidency. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I've got three grandkids, and I want them to experience what I have: salmon in the river, snow in the mountains, clean air and forests to hike in," he said in an interview this weekend at the National Governors Association winter meeting. "It's all going to be degraded if we don't take this battle on."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As a congressman, Inslee was a key player in the push for a cap-and-trade system 10 years ago. A bill passed in the House but stalled in the Senate, even though Democrats had a near-filibuster-proof majority.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Last March, Inslee fought hard but failed to enact the nation's first carbon tax in Washington state. He couldn't whip the votes to pass the bill through the Democratic-controlled legislature. In November, voters in his state rejected a ballot initiative to impose a carbon fee on fossil fuel emissions. A separate push he spearheaded to cap emissions was blocked in the courts.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee said "perseverance" is his single greatest personal quality. "You have to realize it's a necessary quality to achieve any major social 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," he said. "Suffragettes understood that . . . You have to just keep plugging away at it. Sometimes perseverance is more important than genius."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee said he "welcomes" Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal for its ambition and for drawing attention to his pet issue, but he said there's not really a plan for him to endorse. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This was not a policy document. It was really not meant to be," he said. "So now people like me will issue policies to actually put meat on the bones."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Republicans have warned in apocalyptic terms that the resolution could take away people's cars and even lead to killing cows. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) is moving to hold a show vote to force Democrats to take a position on the resolution. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee said Republicans are using scare tactics that remind him of the debate over Obamacare.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's just 'death panels' all over again," he said. "They squawk . . . and they make up stuff out of thin air, just like they did on health care, and then we win. I believe, and I hope, it will be the same result on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During our conversation at the Marriott Marquis, I noted that Democrats lost the House in 2010 after they passed the Affordable Care Act and that several lawmakers lost their seats specifically because they walked the plank to vote for a cap-and-trade system during the same Congress. "Timing is everything - in comedy  and  politics," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee explained that he's clear-eyed about what's realistic. He does not think getting to a carbonless economy in a decade is doable. After his defeats of the past decade, the governor also no longer advocates for a carbon tax or a carbon-pricing system. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I'm proposing alternatives," he said. "What's important to realize is this other assortment of tools in the tool box can achieve the same carbon reduction as a carbon charge. There's a lot of routes to this destination."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When cap-and-trade failed in 2010, Inslee argued, "it was just a line on the graph." Now people experience more frequent fires, flooding and hurricanes, along with worsening air quality, so 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  feels real and thus they're inclined to act.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While the general idea of action is popular, specific steps can generate backlash. During our interview, I noted that the mass "yellow vest" protests in Paris over the past few months started because France imposed a new tax to fight 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Inslee emphasized that this is partly why he does not advocate carbon taxes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Look, we've got a suite of policies that are available to us, not just carbon pricing," he said. "In my state, we've got five bills in the legislature that are all moving forward with the goal of 100 percent clean energy . . . We've learned that we have multiple tools, not just one. There are a lot of different ways to skin this cat."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee's decision to go all in on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is certainly calculated, but it's not craven. This is not some election-year conversion. In 2007, Inslee co-authored a 416-page book on this topic called "Apollo's Fire: Igniting America's Clean Energy Economy." Bill Clinton wrote the foreword.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee pointed to a poll conducted this month by the Center for American Progress, a progressive advocacy group, finding that "addressing the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis" is tied with universal health-care coverage as the top priority among Democratic voters in five early primary states.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another poll this month, from Saint Anselm College, found that 88 percent of likely New Hampshire Democratic voters said they are more likely to support a candidate who advocates for the Green New Deal. That issue beat out Medicare-for-all, Wall Street regulation, taxes on the ultrawealthy and tuition-free college.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A December poll from the Yale Program on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Communication found that 69 percent of all Americans are at least "somewhat" worried about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , up seven points from last March.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Inslee said he would be willing to declare a national emergency on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , allowing drastic federal action that could not pass Congress, if the Supreme Court upholds President Trump's emergency declaration to build a wall on the southern border. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The governor emphasized that he's against Trump's invocation of emergency powers and hopes it gets struck down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "But if the rules 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and the circumstances 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , we're going to play by whatever rules exist to deal with this existential crisis," he said. "So if the possibility exists, we'll say yes."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 james.hohmann@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0February 26, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate dangers 'intensifying' in U.S.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 25, 2018 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01586 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Brady Dennis;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Federal report warns of high costs
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Unflinching account is in contrast to Trump's views
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The federal government on Friday released a long-awaited report with an unmistakable message: The effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , including deadly wildfires, increasingly debilitating hurricanes and heat waves, are already battering the United States, and the danger of more such catastrophes is worsening.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report's authors, who represent numerous federal agencies, say they are more certain than ever that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  poses a severe threat to Americans' health and pocketbooks, as well as to the country's infrastructure and natural resources. And while it avoids policy recommendations, the report's sense of urgency and alarm stands in stark contrast to the lack of any apparent plan from President Trump to tackle the problems, which, according to the government he runs, are increasingly dire.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The congressionally mandated document - the first of its kind issued during the Trump administration - details how climatefueled disasters and other types of worrisome 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are becoming more commonplace throughout the country and how much worse they could become in the absence of efforts to combat global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Already, Western mountain ranges are retaining much less snow throughout the year, threatening water supplies below them. Coral reefs in the Caribbean, Hawaii, Florida and the United States' Pacific territories are experiencing severe bleaching events. Wildfires are devouring ever-larger areas during longer fire seasons. And the country's sole Arctic state, Alaska, is seeing a staggering rate of warming that has upended its ecosystems, from once ice-clogged coastlines to increasingly thawing permafrost tundras.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment's publication marks the government's fourth comprehensive look at 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts on the United States since 2000. The last came in 2014. Produced by 13 federal departments and agencies and overseen by the U.S. Global 
\f1\i\b \ul Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Research Program, the report stretches well over 1,000 pages and draws more definitive, and in some cases more startling, conclusions than earlier versions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The authors argue that global warming "is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life, the economy, and the natural systems that support us." And they conclude that humans must act aggressively to adapt to current impacts and mitigate future catastrophes "to avoid substantial damages to the U.S. economy, environment, and human health and well-being over the coming decades."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The impacts we've seen the last 15 years have continued to get stronger, and that will only continue," said Gary Yohe, a professor of economics and environmental studies at Wesleyan University who served on a National Academy of Sciences panel that reviewed the report. "We have wasted 15 years of response time. If we waste another five years of response time, the story gets worse."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That urgency is at odds with the stance of the Trump administration, which has rolled back several Obama-era environmental regulations and incentivized the production of fossil fuels. Trump also plans to withdraw the nation from the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord and questioned the science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  just last month, saying on CBS's "60 Minutes" that "I don't know that it's man-made" and that the warming trend "could very well go back."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Furthermore, as the Northeast faced a cold spell this week, Trump tweeted, "Whatever happened to Global Warming?" This shows a misunderstanding that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists have repeatedly tried to correct - a confusion between daily weather fluctuations and long-term 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  trends.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday's report.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some of the hundreds of scientists and federal officials who spent months on the detailed document were frustrated that the administration chose to release it on the day after Thanksgiving - typically one of the slowest news days of the year. Several people involved in the report said its release originally had been planned for early December, but after a behind-the-scenes debate in recent weeks about when to make it public, administration officials settled on Black Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Several federal experts who participated in a media call after the release of the report on Friday were repeatedly asked about its timing on a day when the country's attention was likely elsewhere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This report has not been altered or revised in any way because of political considerations," Monica Allen, a spokeswoman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, told reporters. She said the decision on when to release it had been made during the past week but added, "It's not as significant as the content of what's in the report."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said the report shows how 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will affect all Americans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "No matter how hard they try, the Trump administration can't bury the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in a Black Friday news dump - effects their own federal government scientists have uncovered," he said in a statement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report is striking in its clear statement not only that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is already affecting the United States but that the effects are getting worse.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This report draws a direct connection between the warming atmosphere and the resulting 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that affect Americans' lives, communities, and livelihoods, now and in the future," the document reads, concluding that "the evidence of human-caused 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is overwhelming and continues to strengthen, that the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are intensifying across the country, and that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related threats to Americans' physical, social, and economic well-being are rising."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report finds that the continental United States is already 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than it was 100 years ago, surrounded by seas that are on average nine inches higher and being racked by far worse heat waves than the nation experienced only 50 years ago.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But those figures offer only the prelude to even more potentially severe impacts. The report suggests that by 2050, the country could see as much as 2.3 additional degrees of warming in the continental United States. By that same year, in a high-end global-warming scenario, coral reefs in Hawaii and the U.S. Pacific territories could be bleaching every single year - conditions in which their survival would be in severe doubt. A record-warm year like 2016 would become routine.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Key crops, including corn, wheat and soybeans, would see declining yields as temperatures rise during the growing season. The city of Phoenix, which experienced about 80 days per year over 100 degrees around the turn of the century, could have between 120 and 150 such days per year by 2100, depending on the pace of emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In another major step, the authors of the new report have begun to put dollar signs next to projected 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related damage, specifically within the United States.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a worst-case 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scenario, the document finds, labor-related losses by the year 2090 as a result of extreme heat - the sort that makes it difficult to work outdoors or seriously lowers productivity - could amount to an estimated $155 billion annually. Deaths from temperature extremes could take an economic toll of $141 billion per year in the same year, while coastal property damage could total $118 billion yearly, researchers found.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Of course, mitigating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  would also mitigate this damage, by as much as 58 percent in the case of high-temperature-related deaths, the report finds.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The categorical tone of the new assessments reflects scientists' growing confidence in the ability to detect the role of a 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in individual extreme events, such as heat waves and droughts. At the same time, increasingly sophisticated computer simulations now allow them to project future 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in highly specific regions of the country.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For many Americans, however, no simulations are necessary. The effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are already playing out daily.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We don't debate who caused it. You go outside, the streets are flooded. What are you going to do about it? It's our reality nowadays," said Susanne Torriente, who also reviewed the report. She is chief resilience officer for Miami Beach, which is spending hundreds of millions of dollars to adapt to rising sea levels. "We need to use this best available data so we can start making decisions to start investing in our future. . . . It shouldn't be that complicated or that partisan."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report comes on the heels of other recent global warnings, most notably the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  finding that the world would have to make unprecedented 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the next decade to remain below 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius) of total warming above preindustrial levels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the other side of the country from Washington, at least one well-known atmospheric scientist this week was wrestling with the 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  view from his window.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Normally, I can see San Francisco Bay from my home," said Ken Caldeira, a senior researcher at the Carnegie Institution for Science. "Today and for the past few days, I could not see the bay for all the smoke from the Paradise fire."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We are trained to be skeptical and resist jumping to quick conclusions," he said. "But looking at the smoke, I could not help but think: 'This is 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . This is what 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  looks like.' "
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 25, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate dangers 'intensifying' in U.S.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 24, 2018 Saturday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01586 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Brady Dennis;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Federal report warns of high costs
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Unflinching account is in contrast to Trump's views
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The federal government on Friday released a long-awaited report with an unmistakable message: The effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , including deadly wildfires, increasingly debilitating hurricanes and heat waves, are already battering the United States, and the danger of more such catastrophes is worsening.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report's authors, who represent numerous federal agencies, say they are more certain than ever that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  poses a severe threat to Americans' health and pocketbooks, as well as to the country's infrastructure and natural resources. And while it avoids policy recommendations, the report's sense of urgency and alarm stands in stark contrast to the lack of any apparent plan from President Trump to tackle the problems, which, according to the government he runs, are increasingly dire.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The congressionally mandated document - the first of its kind issued during the Trump administration - details how climatefueled disasters and other types of worrisome 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are becoming more commonplace throughout the country and how much worse they could become in the absence of efforts to combat global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Already, Western mountain ranges are retaining much less snow throughout the year, threatening water supplies below them. Coral reefs in the Caribbean, Hawaii, Florida and the United States' Pacific territories are experiencing severe bleaching events. Wildfires are devouring ever-larger areas during longer fire seasons. And the country's sole Arctic state, Alaska, is seeing a staggering rate of warming that has upended its ecosystems, from once ice-clogged coastlines to increasingly thawing permafrost tundras.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment's publication marks the government's fourth comprehensive look at 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts on the United States since 2000. The last came in 2014. Produced by 13 federal departments and agencies and overseen by the U.S. Global 
\f1\i\b \ul Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Research Program, the report stretches well over 1,000 pages and draws more definitive, and in some cases more startling, conclusions than earlier versions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The authors argue that global warming "is transforming where and how we live and presents growing challenges to human health and quality of life, the economy, and the natural systems that support us." And they conclude that humans must act aggressively to adapt to current impacts and mitigate future catastrophes "to avoid substantial damages to the U.S. economy, environment, and human health and well-being over the coming decades."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The impacts we've seen the last 15 years have continued to get stronger, and that will only continue," said Gary Yohe, a professor of economics and environmental studies at Wesleyan University who served on a National Academy of Sciences panel that reviewed the report. "We have wasted 15 years of response time. If we waste another five years of response time, the story gets worse."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That urgency is at odds with the stance of the Trump administration, which has rolled back several Obama-era environmental regulations and incentivized the production of fossil fuels. Trump also plans to withdraw the nation from the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord and questioned the science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  just last month, saying on CBS's "60 Minutes" that "I don't know that it's man-made" and that the warming trend "could very well go back."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Furthermore, as the Northeast faced a cold spell this week, Trump tweeted, "Whatever happened to Global Warming?" This shows a misunderstanding that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists have repeatedly tried to correct - a confusion between daily weather fluctuations and long-term 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  trends.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday's report.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some of the hundreds of scientists and federal officials who spent months on the detailed document were frustrated that the administration chose to release it on the day after Thanksgiving - typically one of the slowest news days of the year. Several people involved in the report said its release originally had been planned for early December, but after a behind-the-scenes debate in recent weeks about when to make it public, administration officials settled on Black Friday.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Several federal experts who participated in a media call after the release of the report on Friday were repeatedly asked about its timing on a day when the country's attention was likely elsewhere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This report has not been altered or revised in any way because of political considerations," Monica Allen, a spokeswoman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, told reporters. She said the decision on when to release it had been made during the past week but added, "It's not as significant as the content of what's in the report."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said the report shows how 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will affect all Americans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "No matter how hard they try, the Trump administration can't bury the effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in a Black Friday news dump - effects their own federal government scientists have uncovered," he said in a statement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report is striking in its clear statement not only that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is already affecting the United States but that the effects are getting worse.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This report draws a direct connection between the warming atmosphere and the resulting 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  that affect Americans' lives, communities, and livelihoods, now and in the future," the document reads, concluding that "the evidence of human-caused 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is overwhelming and continues to strengthen, that the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are intensifying across the country, and that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related threats to Americans' physical, social, and economic well-being are rising."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report finds that the continental United States is already 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than it was 100 years ago, surrounded by seas that are on average nine inches higher and being racked by far worse heat waves than the nation experienced only 50 years ago.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But those figures offer only the prelude to even more potentially severe impacts. The report suggests that by 2050, the country could see as much as 2.3 additional degrees of warming in the continental United States. By that same year, in a high-end global-warming scenario, coral reefs in Hawaii and the U.S. Pacific territories could be bleaching every single year - conditions in which their survival would be in severe doubt. A record-warm year like 2016 would become routine.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Key crops, including corn, wheat and soybeans, would see declining yields as temperatures rise during the growing season. The city of Phoenix, which experienced about 80 days per year over 100 degrees around the turn of the century, could have between 120 and 150 such days per year by 2100, depending on the pace of emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In another major step, the authors of the new report have begun to put dollar signs next to projected 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related damage, specifically within the United States.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a worst-case 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scenario, the document finds, labor-related losses by the year 2090 as a result of extreme heat - the sort that makes it difficult to work outdoors or seriously lowers productivity - could amount to an estimated $155 billion annually. Deaths from temperature extremes could take an economic toll of $141 billion per year in the same year, while coastal property damage could total $118 billion yearly, researchers found.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Of course, mitigating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  would also mitigate this damage, by as much as 58 percent in the case of high-temperature-related deaths, the report finds.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The categorical tone of the new assessments reflects scientists' growing confidence in the ability to detect the role of a 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in individual extreme events, such as heat waves and droughts. At the same time, increasingly sophisticated computer simulations now allow them to project future 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in highly specific regions of the country.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For many Americans, however, no simulations are necessary. The effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are already playing out daily.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We don't debate who caused it. You go outside, the streets are flooded. What are you going to do about it? It's our reality nowadays," said Susanne Torriente, who also reviewed the report. She is chief resilience officer for Miami Beach, which is spending hundreds of millions of dollars to adapt to rising sea levels. "We need to use this best available data so we can start making decisions to start investing in our future. . . . It shouldn't be that complicated or that partisan."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report comes on the heels of other recent global warnings, most notably the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  finding that the world would have to make unprecedented 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the next decade to remain below 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius) of total warming above preindustrial levels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the other side of the country from Washington, at least one well-known atmospheric scientist this week was wrestling with the 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  view from his window.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Normally, I can see San Francisco Bay from my home," said Ken Caldeira, a senior researcher at the Carnegie Institution for Science. "Today and for the past few days, I could not see the bay for all the smoke from the Paradise fire."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We are trained to be skeptical and resist jumping to quick conclusions," he said. "But looking at the smoke, I could not help but think: 'This is 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . This is what 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  looks like.' "
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 brady.dennis@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 24, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kerry stresses how climate change can alter military readiness
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 11, 2015 Wednesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A20
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0509 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Carol Morello
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Secretary of State John F. Kerry said Tuesday he will integrate 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  analysis and its national security implications into all future foreign policy planning.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a speech delivered at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, home to the world's largest naval base and already experiencing flooding linked to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , Kerry called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a threat to national security.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We have to prepare ourselves for the potential social and political consequences that stem from crop failures, water shortages, famine and outbreaks of epidemic disease," he said. "And we have to heighten our national security readiness to deal with the possible destruction of vital infrastructure and the mass movement of refugees - particularly in parts of the world that already provide fertile ground for violent extremism and terror.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Long story short: 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  isn't just about Bambi. It's about us."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kerry said he would convene a task force of senior government officials and outside experts to determine how to make 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  predictions a part of foreign policy planning.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If we can better identify the red flags of risk around the world, we can better target our diplomacy and development assistance to enable those nations to become more resilient and more secure - and less likely to devolve into a full-fledged war and humanitarian crisis," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Embassies could use 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  analysis to help host countries find ways to deter disaster, Kerry said, "before it evolves into deep grievances that help fuel conflicts."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kerry noted that he was speaking in Hampton Roads, where the land on which the city is built is sinking as sea levels are rising twice as fast as the world's average. He said political opponents who doubt the science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are posing a threat to everyone.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The science tells us unequivocally, those who continue to make 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a political fight put us all at risk," he said. "And we cannot sit idly by and allow them to do that."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Kerry called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  more than a threat to the habitats of butterflies and polar bears. He said it has a direct impact on military readiness.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If our military vehicles can't go anywhere because they're up to their axles in water and all the roads leading into and out of base are flooded, it affects our military readiness," he said. "Similarly, if the high risk of wildfires prevents our troops from training with live ammunition, it affects our military readiness."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Citing real life examples, Kerry said drought in Nigeria and the government's inability to cope gave an opening to Boko Haram militants who kidnapped schoolgirls and killed teachers. He also said drought in Syria caused a mass migration from farms to cities, intensifying political unrest when the civil war started.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I'm not suggesting that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  was the primary reason for the crisis in Syria," he said. "Obviously, it wasn't. . . . But the drought that devastated communities across the country exacerbated the instability on the ground and made a bad situation worse."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 carol.morello@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 11, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Study links climate change, economies
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 October 22, 2015 Thursday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0869 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In a sweeping study published Wednesday in Nature, a team of researchers say there is a strong relationship between a region's average temperature and its economic productivity - adding another potential cost to a warming 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Culling economic and temperature data for more than 100 wealthy and poorer countries over a period of 50 years, the researchers assert that the optimum temperature for human productivity seems to be about 13 degrees Celsius or roughly 55 degrees Fahrenheit, as an annual average for a particular place. Once the environment get a lot hotter than that, the researchers add, economic productivity declines "strongly."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The relationship is globally generalizable, unchanged since 1960, and apparent for agricultural and non-agricultural activity in both rich and poor countries," write the authors, led by Marshall Burke of Stanford University's earth system science department, who call their study "the first evidence that economic activity in all regions is coupled to the global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ." Burke published the study with Solomon Hsiang and Edward Miguel, economists at the University of California at Berkeley.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If the findings are correct, they said, that means that unmitigated global warming could lead to a more than 20 percent decline in incomes around the world, compared with a world that does not feature 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . And this would also mean growing global inequality, because poorer countries will be hit by worse temperature increases - simply because "hot, poor countries will probably suffer the largest reduction in growth." Indeed, some wealthier countries with cold weather, such as Canada or Sweden, will benefit greatly based on the study, moving closer to the climatic optimum.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If you're in a country where the average temperature is cooler than 13 degrees C, a little bit of warming could actually be beneficial," Burke says. "On the other hand, if you're already at 13 degrees C, a little extra warming is going to hurt you."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The researchers identify two chief causes of global warming: agriculture and people. In relation to rising temperature, Burke says, "We see that agricultural productivity declines, labor productivity declines, kids do worse on tests, and we see more violence."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the center of the new paper is a historical, economic analysis that culls data from 166 countries over half a century, analyzing gross domestic product per capita against the temperature fluctuations that those countries experienced.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Importantly, the researchers did not compare countries with one another - an approach that would have been beset with many confounding factors. Rather, they compared each country "to itself in years when it is exposed to warmer- versus cooler-than-average temperatures due to naturally occurring stochastic atmospheric 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "An economy observed during a cool year is the 'control' for that same society observed during a warmer 'treatment' year," the authors write.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The second half of the study then projected the toll of a steadily warming trend, based on these relationships. "In 2100, we estimate that unmitigated 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will make 77% of countries poorer in per capita terms than they would be without 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," the paper says.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 However, it is important to note that this is based on a scenario in which the world does nothing to curtail global warming - a scenario that is becoming increasingly difficult to believe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While the authors appear to have conducted a careful analysis, Robert Stavins, an environmental economist at the Harvard Kennedy School, cautioned by e-mail that there is a lot of uncertainty in calculating the long term economic costs of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Stavins adds that while the study only examines market impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , "many economic impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will be outside of markets, such as many ecological impacts, which are nevertheless economic."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The study paints a stark picture in which some countries benefit economically, and others are harmed, by shifting temperature trends. In particular, the countries that fare considerably better are located in currently cold places - reinforcing the idea that northern countries will benefit from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . On top of easier shipping, resource exploitation and tourism, there could be a productivity boost because of more favorable temperatures.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many tropical countries, in contrast, suffer economic damages in this scenario - getting hotter than they already are. "Warming may amplify global inequality because hot, poor countries will probably suffer the largest reduction in growth," the study concludes.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The cross-country implications of the analysis is eye-opening," Rick Larrick, a professor at Duke University's Fuqua School of Business, said after reviewing the study for The Washington Post. "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is not just an environmental issue but geopolitical issue."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One obvious question is whether air conditioning, which is expected to spread widely around the world in coming decades, can mitigate these effects. And the answer appears to be largely no.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Air conditioning absolutely can help, but the data suggests that it does not fully insulate you from the effects of temperature," Burke says.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0October 22, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commerce chief declines to endorse his agency's findings on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 17, 2018 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2018 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A16
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0768 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dino Grandoni
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross declined to defend the work of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), noting that the agency's numerous reports on global warming have been reviewed less favorably by some critics.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During a talk at the National Press Club on Monday, Ross was asked by an audience member whether he accepts "NOAA findings that humans are the primary drivers of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ." NOAA is a division of the Commerce Department.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Ross started his response by saying, "I'm not going to get into the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  debate."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Then he dove in: "Commerce Department's NOAA has issued various reports that reflect the thinking of their scientists, and those reports in general have been reviewed, sometimes favorably, sometimes less so by other people in that field. So I think I'll just let that record speak for itself." A Commerce Department spokesman  declined to comment further.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Ross, before he took office, promised not to obstruct 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  research under his purview. But by declining to endorse the research his department produced, Ross seemed to be pulling a page from the playbook of other Trump officials at departments such as the Environmental Protection Agency who are aggressively trying to dismantle the Obama administration's policies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The comment swiftly drew rebuke from a science group that accused the Commerce chief of being overly political.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The secretary of commerce should be unequivocally supportive of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists, and the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science happening under his watch," said Peter Frumhoff, director of science and policy and chief 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The only people who are making unfavorable comments," he added, "are political leaders and their allies in the Republican Party."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), the top Democrat on the Senate Commerce Committee, weighed in, too: "The vast majority of science done at NOAA, NASA, and universities is crystal clear: If we want a prosperous future, we must address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and sea level rise now," he said. "The only real debate left is how best to address it. Are we going to rise to the challenge and protect our communities, spur the jobs of tomorrow and stop the damage? Or will we continue to ignore the oncoming threat? "
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Republicans on the House Science Committee are among the harsh critics of NOAA's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science. That panel's chairman, Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), has repeatedly accused NOAA 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists of falsifying data to generate "politically correct results."Smith even went so far as to subpoena President Barack Obama's NOAA head, Kathryn Sullivan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although Ross has not been unequivocally supportive of NOAA's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science, he hasn't really tried to obstruct it, either. Under President Trump, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists at NOAA and NASA, the other science agency primarily responsible for studying the warming of Earth's atmosphere, have carried on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone    research with little apparent interference.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In December, for example, NOAA scientists contributed to a sprawling report on links between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and extreme weather events, such as heat waves in Alaska and droughts in Africa. That month, NOAA's acting administrator, Rear Adm. Tim Gallaudet, said the findings about unprecedented warming in the Arctic Ocean "directly relate to the priorities of this administration" when it comes to national and economic security.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 By contrast, EPA and Interior Department leaders have sought to interfere with the publication of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science by forbidding federal researchers from presenting on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  at a conference and directing that language about it be removed from a news release on a sea-level-rise study.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet Commerce's record of facilitating scientific discussion has sometimes raised questions. Ross let the 15-person Advisory Committee for the Sustained National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment, which works to translate the findings of the National 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Assessment to a broad audience, expire in August. The Post's Juliet Eilperin reported Tuesday that Trump officials faulted the panel for having only "one member from industry," citing emails released under the Freedom of Information Act to the advocacy group Center for Biological Diversity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Still, Ross has said he is unwilling to disrupt scientific research. "It is public tax dollars that support the Department's scientific research, and barring some national security concern, I see no valid reason to keep peer reviewed research from the public," he wrote in response to a letter Nelson sent last year regarding 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dino.grandioni@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 17, 2018
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Of climate change and snake oil
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 July 19, 2020 Sunday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A30
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0378 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Letters to the Editor
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Regarding the July 15 front-page article "In new 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  plan, Biden sets more-ambitious goals":
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Like most American economists and energy strategists, I'm bitterly disappointed that the proposed 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  strategy from former vice president Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, does not feature a carbon tax, or at least an emission cap-and-trade system. Instead, he's offering more of the same second-best renewable-energy mandate, energy regulation and low-carbon research promotion options that former Democratic administrations and proponents of the Green New Deal have mistakenly promoted.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Why, when professional analyses of alternative 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  mitigation strategies have convincingly demonstrated that a carbon tax is the most efficient and socially fair means to achieve our emission reduction goal, is he doing this?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I can only assume the main reason is abject fear of any proposal that involves the dreaded word "tax." So, instead of giving people the facts on the clear net benefits of a carbon tax and working to persuade them of its merits, Mr. Biden is lamely proposing a set of measures that will cost energy consumers and most middle-income taxpayers more and achieve less than a carbon tax would. This is political cowardice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Robin Broadfield , Washington
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  If we are to  believe the Trump campaign that former vice president Joe Biden's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  plan to "dramatically expand solar and wind energies" is a plan that "is more like a socialist manifesto . . . that will crush the middle class," are we then a socialist economy considering that middle-class Americans benefited so much from the rise of the oil and gas industries in the mid-19th century? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And if "Joe Biden's entire career has been a gift to the Chinese Communist Party," as President Trump said, as reported in the July 15 news article "Trump uses Rose Garden event for extended attack on Biden," what are we to make of Mr. Trump, who benefited from Russia's help in his 2016 election?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Seems like Mr. Trump is playing with the United States' future. We need to innovate; this is where the jobs of the future are. Is the nation seriously considering another round of swindling by a serial bankruptist turned snake-oil vendor?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Christine Fortin ,  College Park 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0July 19, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The truth behind climate-change denial denial
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 7, 2015 Tuesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0770 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Dana Milbank
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 There is no denying it: 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  deniers are in retreat.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What began as a subtle shift away from the claim that man-made global warming is not a threat to the planet has lately turned into a stampede. The latest attempt to deny denial comes from the conservative American Legislative Exchange Council, a powerful group that pushes for states to pass laws that are often drafted by industry. As my Post colleagues Tom Hamburger, Joby Warrick and Chris Mooney report, ALEC is not only insisting that it doesn't deny 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - it's threatening to sue those who suggest otherwise.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The group, which suffered the highly visible defection of Google because of its global-warming stance and an exodus of other top corporate members, sent letters to Common Cause and the League of Conservation Voters instructing them to "remove all false or misleading material" alleging ALEC questions global-warming theory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The problem for ALEC is that as recently as 2013, it was still reaffirming "model legislation" calling on states to consider "legitimate and scientifically defensible alternative hypotheses" to the "mainstream scientific positions" on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The proposed legislation states that there is "a great deal of scientific uncertainty" about the matter and suggests states treat possible beneficial effects of carbon "in an evenhanded manner." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The turnabout at ALEC follows an about-face at the Heartland Institute, a libertarian outfit that embraces a description of it as "the world's most prominent think tank promoting skepticism about man-made 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But on Christmas Eve, Justin Haskins, a blogger and editor at Heartland, penned an article for the conservative journal Human Events declaring: "The real debate is not whether man is, in some way, contributing to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ; it's true that the science is settled on that point in favor of the alarmists." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Haskins called it "a rather extreme position to say that we ought to allow dangerous pollutants to destroy the only planet we know of that can completely sustain human life," and he suggested work on "technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions without destroying whole economies." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To be sure, this is a tactical retreat, and you shouldn't expect conservative groups to start lining up in favor of a carbon tax. Rather, they're resorting to more defensible arguments that don't make them sound like flat-earthers. My Post colleagues quoted energy lobbyist Scott Segal saying that "the science issue just isn't as salient as it once was." Instead, Segal talks about the cost and viability of proposed regulations.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's likely no coincidence that the shift is occurring as the Obama administration approaches a June target to finalize rules on power-plant emissions. Those who oppose regulation are wise to abandon a position that holds little public appeal; a healthy majority of Americans accept that global warming is real, and a New York Times poll earlier this year found that even half of Republicans support government action to address it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 More and more conservative officeholders are embracing the "I am not a scientist" agnosticism on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  rather than skepticism. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker John Boehner and presidential candidates Bobby Jindal and Marco Rubio have adopted this response, and Rubio has joined Mitt Romney and Chuck Grassley in embracing the less assailable position that U.S. efforts to restrict carbon are pointless without similar efforts across the globe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Certainly, figures such as Senate Environment Committee Chairman Jim Inhofe (who calls man-made warming a "hoax") and presidential candidate Ted Cruz (who fancies himself a modern-day Galileo opposing the "global-warming alarmists") are not about to 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But as corporations abandon the untenable position of denial, ideologues will be forced to do the same.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As my Post colleagues noted, Southern Co., an operator of coal-fired power plants, decided to drop funding for a Smithsonian scientist who challenged 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  theory but failed to disclose that his work was funded by fossil-fuel interests. ALEC's declining skepticism also comes as even oil companies such as Occidental Petroleum and BP quit the group.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At ALEC's December meeting, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  contrarian got applause for declaring in his presentation that "carbon dioxide is not a pollutant. It is a benefit. It is the very elixir of life."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For politicians and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -denial groups, the elixir of life is money. Now that corporations are becoming reluctant to bankroll crazy theories, the surrender of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  deniers will follow.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Twitter: @Milbank 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 7, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fighting climate change is not impossible
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 2, 2016 Saturday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0783 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Regarding Robert J. Samuelson's Dec. 28 op-ed, "Can we set the planet's temperature?":
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Why haven't our needed energy breakthroughs come soon enough to help us avoid the worst effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ? There is simply no economic incentive for private investors to fund research and development in these technologies as long as fossil-fuel users are free to foul our atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We could turn this situation around by applying a gradually increasing greenhouse-gas-emissions fee on fuel extractors and importers and returning all fee revenue to households equally. Prices for gasoline, fuel oil and natural gas would rise, providing an economic incentive for investors, entrepreneurs and businesses to invest in conservation, efficiency and renewable energy sources. Revenue returned to households would help consumers with rising energy costs during the transition to a clean-energy economy. A revenue-neutral greenhouse-gas fee would benefit jobs, the economy and health outcomes while dramatically reducing emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mr. Samuelson was correct: Fighting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  requires more than soothing fantasies. It requires that we get the economics right.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Gary Rucinski , Newton, Mass.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer is Northeast regional coordinator for the Citizens' 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Lobby. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Robert J. Samuelson exuded a dangerous   fatalism  regarding 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sadly similar to that which Republican presidential candidates are using to justify their irresponsible complaisance on the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The United States is on course to meet its goal to cut emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, despite congressional resistance and without significant economic costs, suggesting that the emissions pledges made in Paris are achievable. The prices of key technologies such as solar have fallen 80 percent in the past decade and are likely to get cheaper. Major economies such as China are deindustrializing and slowing coal use to improve air quality. Indeed, global carbon dioxide emissions fell slightly in 2015, in part because of these developments.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mr. Samuelson was right that additional efforts will be needed, including tax incentives for carbon capture and storage technology. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a difficult problem, but the United States has risen to such challenges before and seen our country and economy benefit. As President John F. Kennedy said, we embrace these challenges "not because they are easy, but because they are hard." That's what making America great again will require.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Paul Bledsoe , Arlington
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer was communications director of the White House 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Task Force under President Bill Clinton.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A carbon tax that addresses  the economic externalities resulting in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will provide a powerful market signal not only for investment in renewable alternatives but also for overall energy efficiency and the development of other renewable alternatives not discussed in Robert J. Samuelson's column. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Such an approach would lessen the need for "choices" to be made by politicians and bureaucrats about what the "correct" energy mix should be. Most important, and in contrast with Mr. Samuelson's pessimistic outlook, studies performed by economic forecasting firm  Regional Economic Models   and others quantitatively demonstrate that a gradually rising carbon tax would result in the reductions in greenhouse gases that scientists say must occur to avoid the most catastrophic outcomes of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Kyle E. Thomas , Syracuse, N.Y
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Robert J. Samuelson said  it  is "a soothing fantasy" to believe the world can "wean itself from fossil fuels by substituting renewables." This cynical thinking suggests humanity does not have the will and the decency to protect its children in the face of the high risks and high costs of global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The potential for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  chaos and gutted economies is  widely accepted by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  economists and increasingly accepted by the general population. As the effects of global warming become even more evident, people   will demand that governments and corporations take the necessary actions to wean us off fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many interventions are in place, such as the Clean Power Plan, the U.N. Green 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Fund, the Breakthrough Energy Coalition and the U.S.-China agreement on carbon emissions. And many interventions will be implemented to limit global warming, including mandated building and transportation energy efficiency, a price on carbon pollution, elimination of fossil-fuel subsidies, preferential tax treatment and financing for clean energy, use of hydroelectric power and geothermal electricity generation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Limiting global warming is a mission possible because humanity will demand it.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  James Little , Seattle
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 2, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fighting climate change is not impossible
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 3, 2016 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0783 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Regarding Robert J. Samuelson's Dec. 28 op-ed, "Can we set the planet's temperature?":
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Why haven't our needed energy breakthroughs come soon enough to help us avoid the worst effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ? There is simply no economic incentive for private investors to fund research and development in these technologies as long as fossil-fuel users are free to foul our atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We could turn this situation around by applying a gradually increasing greenhouse-gas-emissions fee on fuel extractors and importers and returning all fee revenue to households equally. Prices for gasoline, fuel oil and natural gas would rise, providing an economic incentive for investors, entrepreneurs and businesses to invest in conservation, efficiency and renewable energy sources. Revenue returned to households would help consumers with rising energy costs during the transition to a clean-energy economy. A revenue-neutral greenhouse-gas fee would benefit jobs, the economy and health outcomes while dramatically reducing emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mr. Samuelson was correct: Fighting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  requires more than soothing fantasies. It requires that we get the economics right.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Gary Rucinski , Newton, Mass.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer is Northeast regional coordinator for the Citizens' 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Lobby. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Robert J. Samuelson exuded a dangerous   fatalism  regarding 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  sadly similar to that which Republican presidential candidates are using to justify their irresponsible complaisance on the issue.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The United States is on course to meet its goal to cut emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, despite congressional resistance and without significant economic costs, suggesting that the emissions pledges made in Paris are achievable. The prices of key technologies such as solar have fallen 80 percent in the past decade and are likely to get cheaper. Major economies such as China are deindustrializing and slowing coal use to improve air quality. Indeed, global carbon dioxide emissions fell slightly in 2015, in part because of these developments.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mr. Samuelson was right that additional efforts will be needed, including tax incentives for carbon capture and storage technology. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a difficult problem, but the United States has risen to such challenges before and seen our country and economy benefit. As President John F. Kennedy said, we embrace these challenges "not because they are easy, but because they are hard." That's what making America great again will require.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Paul Bledsoe , Arlington
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The writer was communications director of the White House 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Task Force under President Bill Clinton.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  A carbon tax that addresses  the economic externalities resulting in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  will provide a powerful market signal not only for investment in renewable alternatives but also for overall energy efficiency and the development of other renewable alternatives not discussed in Robert J. Samuelson's column. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Such an approach would lessen the need for "choices" to be made by politicians and bureaucrats about what the "correct" energy mix should be. Most important, and in contrast with Mr. Samuelson's pessimistic outlook, studies performed by economic forecasting firm  Regional Economic Models   and others quantitatively demonstrate that a gradually rising carbon tax would result in the reductions in greenhouse gases that scientists say must occur to avoid the most catastrophic outcomes of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Kyle E. Thomas , Syracuse, N.Y
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Robert J. Samuelson said  it  is "a soothing fantasy" to believe the world can "wean itself from fossil fuels by substituting renewables." This cynical thinking suggests humanity does not have the will and the decency to protect its children in the face of the high risks and high costs of global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The potential for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  chaos and gutted economies is  widely accepted by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  economists and increasingly accepted by the general population. As the effects of global warming become even more evident, people   will demand that governments and corporations take the necessary actions to wean us off fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many interventions are in place, such as the Clean Power Plan, the U.N. Green 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Fund, the Breakthrough Energy Coalition and the U.S.-China agreement on carbon emissions. And many interventions will be implemented to limit global warming, including mandated building and transportation energy efficiency, a price on carbon pollution, elimination of fossil-fuel subsidies, preferential tax treatment and financing for clean energy, use of hydroelectric power and geothermal electricity generation.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Limiting global warming is a mission possible because humanity will demand it.  
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  James Little , Seattle
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 3, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pope urgent on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 16, 2015 Tuesday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01382 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Michelle Boorstein;Anthony Faiola;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 A draft of a major environmental document by Pope Francis says "the bulk of global warming" is caused by human activity and calls on people - especially the world's rich - to take steps to mitigate the damage by reducing consumption and reliance on fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In words likely to anger some of his conservative critics, the pope backs the science of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , saying "plenty of scientific studies point out that the last decades of global warming have been mostly caused by the great concentration of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxide and others) especially generated by human action."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The poor and the Earth are shouting," reads the draft of the encyclical, the first of its kind dedicated to the environment. The Washington Post translated portions of the draft.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The encyclical release had been planned for Thursday and was highly anticipated, given Francis's enormous popularity and what many see as his potential to significantly affect policy in such areas as energy use and economic globalization.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It was timed to influence global meetings later this year about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , unusual for such a high-level document. It was also seen as an opening salvo on the topic before the pope's planned trip to the United States in late September.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Then the Italian magazine L'Espresso leaked the draft on its Web site, linking to it in a piece by conservative analyst Sandro Magister. The leak set off a global scurry by environmentalists, theologians, reporters and others attempting to translate it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, told journalists Monday that the document was an "intermediate version" and warned that some provisions contained in the leaked draft may be different from those in the final version.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many religious and environmental experts - particularly those more aligned with the pope's views on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - declined to comment until the official document is released, in some cases voicing concern about offending the Vatican.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  The draft reveals Francis as part policy wonk, part lyricist, calling explicitly in places for more investment in renewable energy and in others for evening the "ecological debt" between the Northern and Southern hemispheres, wealthy and poor countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Enlighten the masters of power and money so that they should not fall prey to the sin of indifference, so that they should love the common good, support the weak, and care about this world that we inhabit," the draft reads.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Part of the reason for managing the document's release so tightly - even close allies of the pope said they hadn't seen it - was because of its potentially explosive content. And translated portions of the document seemed to confirm economic conservatives' fears that Pope Francis would frame the issue as one defined by sinful overconsumption, unrestrained free markets and unending reliance on fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Rumors of sabotage
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The leak by Magister immediately fueled rumors about schemes to take down a pope many see as left-leaning on some issues.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Rev. Bernd Hagenkord, head of the German-speaking section of Vatican Radio, blogged that the leak was "sabotage - somebody wants to actively undermine the pope's message." Citing Vatican sources, the Italian news outlet La Stampa described the leak as an attempt by elements within the Holy See to harm the pope and dull the impact of the encyclical.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the draft encyclical, the pope states that there may be some natural reasons for global warming but strongly chastises 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  skeptics.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The attitudes hindering the paths toward a solution, even amongst the believers, go from negating the problem to indifference, to an easy resignation, or to a blind faith in technical solutions," he writes in the draft.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The document associates polluted environments with global inequality. "I'd like to point out that the problems that hit harder at those who are excluded are often not very clear. They are the majority of those who live on the planet, they're billions of people. They get mentioned during international political and economic debates, but their problems are mostly introduced as an addendum, something you add almost out of duty or as something peripheral. . . . But today we can't avoid stating that a true ecological approach must always become a social approach, integrating justice in the debate around environment, so that we listen to the cry of Earth as much as we listen to the one of the poor."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Reliance on papal teaching
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The encyclical follows centuries of papal teachings that care for creation is a core Catholic value. Francis drew on previous papal remarks on the environment almost as a Supreme Court ruling would cite legal precedent.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Pope Benedict proposed we should recognize that the natural environment is full of wounds produced by our irresponsible behavior," the document reads.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the draft, Francis openly lobbies for renewable energy and blames global warming in part on "a model of development based on the intensive use of fossil fuels." The draft calls for "urgent action" to develop policies to reduce greenhouse gases, including "substituting fossil fuels and developing renewable energy sources."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The pope's encyclical has been widely anticipated by environmentalists and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists as a possible victory in the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  debate that could finally help to break a political logjam and shift public opinion more strongly in favor of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There has been much speculation about how the document could especially move Catholic voters in the United States.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 George Mason University's Center for 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Communication found that about 70 percent of U.S. Catholics think global warming is happening, a slightly higher percentage than for Americans as a whole (63 percent). Francis was the most trusted individual leader on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , according to the George Mason poll.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The encyclical also comes in a year with high potential for international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action. At the end of 2015, nations will assemble in Paris for the U.N. Framework Convention on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , where they will try to hammer out a global agreement to ratchet down greenhouse gas emissions. During his U.S. visit, the pope is expected to speak at the United Nations and before Congress.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A just-released report from the International Energy Agency has amped up the pressure by showing that nations' current pledges to reduce their emissions - without further action - would fall short of keeping warming below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, a widely accepted international target. Beyond 2 degrees Celsius, it is feared, the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could become increasingly severe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Sam Gregg of the Acton Institute, a faith-based group that works to promote free markets, said the leak will focus attention on potential differences between the draft text and the actual encyclical.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "If this is indeed not the final text, as the Holy See's press office is stating, then much of the attention will be on differences between the draft text and the actual encyclical. That will fuel ultimately unprovable speculation on why the things that were 
\f1\i\b \ul changed
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  were altered, thereby potentially distracting from the messages of the final text," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although Francis is often assailed by Catholics who see his talk about income and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  coming at the expense of talk about issues such as abortion, some conservative theologians Monday praised the draft.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's a metaphysical, poetic document," said Chad Pecknold, a Catholic University theologian. "Being in dominion can never mean like a slave owner owns a slave. It has to be a protector, a steward, a servant, one who cares [for] and cultivates the Earth so that we have something to pass on to the next generation."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Papal biographer Austen Ivereigh called the document "a lament for a lost connectedness."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "It's a very powerful argument that much that has gone wrong in our world is the consequence of forgetting that we are creatures rather than masters," Ivereigh said Monday. "The pope is almost saying: 'You may not believe in God, but if you believe in ecology, you can't ignore this.' "
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 michelle.boorstein@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 anthony.faiola@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Faiola reported from Berlin. Stefano Pitrelli in Rome and Sarah Pulliam Bailey in Washington contributed to this report. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 16, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Report: Climate change can take a toll on mental health, but the effects can be managed
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 4, 2017 Tuesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0HEALTH; Pg. E02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0458 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is not only harmful to our physical health - it can be debilitating for our mental health as well, according to a recent report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Severe weather events and natural disasters linked to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  have the most dramatic effect on mental health, according to the report by the American Psychological Association and EcoAmerica: Natural disasters cause intense negative emotions in people who are exposed to them, primarily fear and grief. Anxiety, depression and unhealthy behavior are also common responses.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As one example of how disasters made more likely by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  can affect mental health, the report cites statistics from people who survived Hurricane Katrina. Their rates of suicide and incidence of suicidal thoughts more than doubled, 1 in 6 people met the diagnostic criteria for PTSD, and nearly half of the people living in an affected area developed an anxiety or mood disorder such as depression.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some things can protect people from the worst psychological effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -induced natural disasters, such as having social support. In contrast, those who live in communities where livelihood is directly tied to the environment, such as agriculture, tourism or fishing, are more vulnerable to negative stress and other mental-health impacts, according to the report. People in indigenous communities are particularly vulnerable because 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  can threaten environmental aspects of their cultural heritage.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Problems exacerbated by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  have carry-over effects on a person's physical health, the economy and the community. 
\f1\i\b \ul Changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in weather patterns can affect agriculture and infrastructure, which may force some people to migrate.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Displacement because of natural disasters can lead to a variety of negative consequences, such as a loss of social support, strains on personal relationships, absences from work and higher medical costs, according to the report.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The authors of the report suggest several strategies people can use to cope with or mitigate the negative mental effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The most important thing is to encourage social connections, to make people feel more secure and give them greater access to information, said Susan Clayton, the lead author of the report and a professor of psychology at the College of Wooster in Ohio. Preparedness is another important factor in mitigating mental health effects caused or aggravated by 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The fact that most of us ignore 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  paradoxically makes the effects worse because we don't really know what to expect and it seems scary and unknown," Clayton said, "but if we inform ourselves that that's what is likely to happen in our area, we would be more prepared and in control of the situation."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 - Jia Naqvi
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 4, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 It's natural to behave irrationally; Climate change is just the latest problem that people acknowledge but ignore
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 8, 2009 Tuesday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0District-Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0HEALTH; Pg. HE01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01285 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0David A. Fahrenthold
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 To a psychologist, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  looks as if it was designed to be ignored.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is a global problem, with no obvious villains and no one-step solutions, whose worst effects seem as if they'll befall somebody else at some other time. In short, if someone set out to draw up a problem that people would not care about, one expert on human behavior said, it would look exactly like 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That's the upshot of a spate of new research that tries to explain stalled U.S. efforts to combat greenhouse-gas emissions by putting the country on the couch.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Polls -- including one last month -- indicate that a sizable, though shrinking, number of Americans believe 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is happening. Most of those people think it is a "serious" problem. So, rationally, shouldn't they be doing more to fight it?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The problem, many psychologists say, is the "rationally."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Those who are concerned that a real problem is being left unaddressed have called for a 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in the way that green groups talk about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , which has traditionally been heavy on warnings about drought and stranded polar bears. Instead, researchers suggested a new set of back-door appeals, designed essentially to fool people into serving their own -- and the planet's -- best interests.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We are collectively irrational, in the sense that we should really care about the long-term well-being of the planet but when we get up in the morning it's very hard to motivate ourselves," said Dan Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at Duke University, who gave a keynote speech   last month at a Washington conference devoted to understanding why people don't do more to save energy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Psychologists studying the issue say that the now-familiar warnings about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  kick at emotional dead spots in all human brains -- but especially in American brains. Researchers have only theories to explain why people in the United States have done less than those in such places as Europe and Japan. Some think Americans are culturally leery of programs the government might develop to target 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , trusting instead that the free market will solve major problems.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One U.S. researcher thought television is to blame: All those TV ads have made Americans more focused on their own wants, she theorized, and less likely to care about the long-term good.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 No matter where the public's complacency springs from, psychologists have seen this kind of thing before, Ariely said: "That's why we don't exercise, and we overeat, and we bite our fingernails. . . . It's not something where we're going to overcome human nature."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Last month, shortly before Monday's start of an international conference on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the United States and China made pledges to work on cutting greenhouse-gas emissions. But even these underscored the point that much more remains to be done: The United States offered to cut emissions less than environmentalists say it needs to; China offered to cut in ways it was planning to anyway.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Obstacles to progress 
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The obstacles to progress -- internationally and in the U.S. Senate, where a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bill is stalled -- aren't just mental.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a policy problem that has "psychological distance": In layman's terms, there's a sense that this is a problem for somebody else or some other time.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Although researchers say the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is, in fact, already shifting, psychologists say many Americans still don't feel close to the issue. And though scientists say that 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is unequivocal, the science can be confusing: It is complex, and vocal skeptics are still saying the evidence is not at all conclusive.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another problem with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is called, more obscurely, "system justification." This refers to humankind's deep-seated love for the status quo and willingness to defend it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This is why 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  isn't like the hole in the ozone layer: In that crisis, the solution was to substitute new chemicals for old ones, and the 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  happened mainly inside refrigerator coils and spray cans. In this one, they could alter basic things about modern life, everything from light bulbs to cars to air travel.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A third problem is that psychologists say humans can fret about only so many things at once -- the technical term is the "finite pool of worry."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The proof of that might be found in last month's Washington Post-ABC News poll, which showed that belief in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  had actually fallen 13 percentage points since 2006, from 85 percent to 72. It could be that new worries such as lost jobs and swine flu crowded old ones out of the pool.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Psychological researchers say one possible way to overcome all these obstacles is to frame the 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  needed to curb carbon emissions as "saving" the American way of life, instead of 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  it. Another is to pair warnings about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  with concrete suggestions about what to do, so people can act instead of just stewing in worry.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another is to tap into two powerful human impulses: to be like one's neighbors and then to beat them at something.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Call in the elephants 
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In one small study around San Diego in 2007, researchers hung four fliers on doorknobs. One told homeowners that they should conserve energy because it helped the environment. One said saving energy was socially responsible. One said that it saved money. The fourth said that the majority of neighbors in the community were doing it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The researchers waited and then read the meters. The houses with the fourth flier showed the most 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Simply urging people -- or telling them that it's a good idea to recycle or conserve energy -- is the same as nothing," said Robert Cialdini, a professor at Arizona State University who worked on the study.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One of those listening to the psychologists is Rep. Brian Baird (D-Wash.), who introduced a bill calling on the Department of Energy to study "social and behavioral factors" that affect energy use. It passed a House committee, though Baird said some Republicans called it "mind control." "These [ideas] can all be met with derision until you try it," Baird said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For now, however, some psychologists say they're frustrated that their ideas seem to have been picked up only unevenly by environmental groups.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For instance, an ad 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 campaign
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  running in the United States and 34 other countries calls for progress at international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  talks in Copenhagen using a play on the city's name: It becomes "Hopenhagen." The ads' strategy was devised by the firm Ogilvy & Mather, where an executive said they, also, wanted to leave behind gloomy messages about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 But Janet Swim, a professor at Pennsylvania State University who led an American Psychological Association 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 study
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  messages, said something was missing. "What is a person supposed to do after seeing the message?" she wrote after seeing one       \'a0    
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 video
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  ad.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another new 
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ad
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone , from the World Wildlife Fund, shows an elephant, birds and other wildlife dialing U.S. senators' offices. "So who will call to speak up for those who have no voice?" the narrator asks.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Better, Swim said. The commercial gives a concrete order: Call your senator. But, she said, it might communicate a "norm of inaction" by implying that no actual people are calling now.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The best example of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  psychology in action might be programs run by the Arlington energy efficiency software company Opower. In 12 areas around the country, the firm sends mailings to utility customers. The sheets compare each customer's power usage to that of neighbors with similar houses and offer tips for catching up, such as turning off lights and lowering the temperature settings of water heaters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It works, the company says, lowering electricity usage by 2 percent in several test cases. The fliers never say a word about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs28 Graphic
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 IMAGE; World Wildlife Fund; A television ad shows wildlife calling senators about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The message: People should call, too.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE; Ogilvy & Mather; An ad promoting the Copenhagen 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  conference seeks to avoid the gloom-and-doom tone -- but what is the message?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE; The Arlington firm Opower sends utility customers sheets comparing their power usage to that of neighbors and offers tips for catching up.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 8, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ExxonMobil investors win climate change vote
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 1, 2017 Thursday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A10
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0863 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Steven Mufson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Shareholders force company to report 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 on policies' effects
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 ExxonMobil management suffered a defeat Wednesday in a shareholder rebellion over 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , as major financial advisory firms, fund managers and other investors controlling 62.3 percent of shares voted to force the oil giant to report on the impact of global measures designed to keep the rise in global warming to 2 degrees Celsius.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although the identities of voters in the shareholder revolt at the ExxonMobil annual meeting in Dallas were not disclosed, a source familiar with the result said that major advisory firm BlackRock had cast its shares in opposition to ExxonMobil management and that Vanguard and State Street had probably done the same.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The vote came as President Trump appeared to be nearing a decision on whether to exit the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord. Even as the Trump administration's commitment to the Paris accord wavered, the ExxonMobil vote showed that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  concerns were gaining ground in the business world.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 BlackRock and Vanguard are the biggest shareholders in ExxonMobil, owning 13 percent, or $43.6 billion, of the company's stock. State Street Global Advisors is close behind, with 5.1 percent. Their votes against management marked an important step for groups trying to force corporations to adopt greater disclosure about the financial fallout of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 BlackRock, which said earlier that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  disclosure is one of its top priorities, had warned on its website that "our patience is not infinite."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This is an unprecedented victory for investors in the fight to ensure a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy," said New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli, a trustee of the New York Common Retirement Fund, which co-sponsored the proxy resolution. "
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is one of the greatest long-term risks we face in our portfolio and has direct impact on the core business of ExxonMobil," he said in a statement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The resolution says the company "should analyze the impacts on ExxonMobil's oil and gas reserves and resources under a scenario in which reduction in demand results from carbon restrictions and related rules or commitments adopted by governments consistent with the globally agreed upon 2 degree [Celsius] target."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The resolution adds that "this reporting should assess the resilience of the company's full portfolio of reserves and resources through 2040 and beyond, and address the financial risks associated with such a scenario."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 BlackRock's website injected a sense of urgency. "As a long-term investor, we are willing to be patient with companies when our engagement affirms they are working to address our concerns."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 However, it added, "when we do not see progress despite ongoing engagement, or companies are insufficiently responsive to our efforts to protect the long-term economic interests of our clients, we will not hesitate to exercise our right to vote against management recommendations."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fidelity Investments said it was adopting the United Nations' Principles for Responsible Investment, but a spokesman would not say whether it voted for the resolution.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The major financial management firms have added clout to pension funds such as California's and New York's that have backed social and environmental resolutions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Last month, similar resolutions demanding that management explain how 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could affect their businesses were adopted at Occidental Petroleum and PPL, a large utility holding company. Occidental's shareholders backed the resolution with a 58 percent majority that included BlackRock in its first vote against a company's management over 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The ExxonMobil annual meeting Wednesday was the first for Darren W. Woods as chief executive. He took over from Rex Tillerson, now secretary of state.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although the company has written two open letters urging Trump to stay in the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord, ExxonMobil has remained the subject of criticism and litigation over whether it has adequately disclosed the consequences of burning fossil fuels.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Corporate governance groups have urged ExxonMobil to disclose more information in its Securities and Exchange Commission filings. But at a recent U.S. Chamber of Commerce panel about whether the SEC should require greater disclosure, historian and energy consultant Daniel Yergin said that events that take place in 30 years might not be material for Big Oil and gas companies and that it went "beyond the scope of what investors need to make decisions."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gretchen Goldman, research director on science and democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said investors "are right that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  can pose material risks to companies."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 She said that reserves held by oil, gas and coal companies could be "stranded" and never used.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In its proxy materials, ExxonMobil said that it had done adequate disclosure in its annual "Outlook for Energy" document, which most recently said that global demand for energy will increase 25 percent through 2040.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We believe the risks of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are serious and warrant action, thoughtful action," Woods said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But he added: "There's a moral imperative to bring energy to people who live in energy poverty."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 steven.mufson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 1, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 I worked on the EPA's climate change site. Deleting it is a declaration of war.
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 25, 2017 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0935 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Jason Samenow
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Capital Weather Gang's Jason Samenow on the Trump administration's hostility to science
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This spring, political officials at the Environmental Protection Agency removed the agency's 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  website, one of the world's top resources for information on the science and effects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To me, a scientist who managed this website for more than five years, its removal signifies a declaration of war on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science by EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. There can be no other interpretation. I draw this conclusion as a meteorologist with a specialization in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science and as an independent voter who strives to keep my political and scientific views separate. I concede that this specific issue is personal for me, given the countless hours I spent working on the site. But it should be obvious to anyone how this senseless action runs counter to principles of good governance and scientific integrity.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Some 20 years in the making, the breadth and quality of the website's content was remarkable. It lasted through Democratic and Republican administrations, partly because its information mirrored the findings of the mainstream scientific community, including the National Academy of Sciences, other federal agencies and the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . It "presented the current understanding of the science and possible solutions in a fair and balanced way," says Kerry Emanuel, a world-renowned atmospheric scientist at MIT and a political conservative.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The site's overarching conclusion, informed by these scientific organizations and reports, was that recent warming is largely a result of human activities, specifically the burning of fossil fuels, which releases large amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet Pruitt, a lawyer who has spent much of his career fighting 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  mitigation efforts, decided that he knows more than the thousands of scientists whose decades of work support this conclusion. These are his words about the impact of human activity: "I would not agree that it's a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." Pruitt has  championed the administration's decision to exit the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement and called for a debate on the fundamentals of the issue, even though there's virtually no disagreement about it among scientists. He then effectively cleansed the EPA's Board of Scientific Counselors, a steering committee for the agency's research.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The EPA's official line is that it is "updating" the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  website to reflect new "priorities" under Pruitt and Trump. It has archived the old site but put nothing in its place nor announced a timetable for "updating" it. Pruitt may not accept mainstream 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science conclusions, but if he wanted to promote his alternative views, a much more defensible and transparent action would have been to leave the site up while posting his perspective as well. Instead, one of the world's best 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science sites has vanished.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In its heyday in the early 2000s, if you Googled "
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone " or "global warming," the EPA's site was the first hit.   The site not only presented 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science , it was also a portal to data on warming's effects and greenhouse gas emissions, along with guidance and tools to help people, municipalities and states reduce their carbon footprints. It included a vibrant kids' site treasured by educators, featuring interactive teaching tools and videos, which was also taken down.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 While the George W. Bush administration attempted to exert some control over the site, it was never so drastic. When Bush's political appointees filed into the EPA in 2001 - coinciding with when I began managing the site - updates were put on hold for several months. For a while, we were permitted to update only one page a month, which first went through an onerous White House review process. As the site contained several hundred pages of content at that time, this was effectively a "let it rot" policy. But at least the site wasn't trashed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During Bush's second term, the constraints on updating were lifted, and we resumed regularly posting new material. That carried on through the Obama administration (I left the EPA in 2010 to join The Washington Post). 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 To be perfectly clear, it is any administration's prerogative to revise or archive Web pages that relate to policies and programs it is no longer pursuing. For example, Pruitt's move to archive material on the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan was totally justified; the Trump administration has shelved the policy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But there is no justification for political interference with authoritative, carefully vetted scientific information. Neither the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration nor NASA has altered its online 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science content - which is not substantively different than material on the EPA's site. They are not currently run by political appointees.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It is refreshing that governments in several cities, including Chicago, Boston and San Francisco , have published replica versions of the EPA's now-defunct site to keep it alive.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Pruitt's order to delete the site feels purely spiteful, as if he simply couldn't abide knowing that the agency he leads was publishing information he doesn't believe. But science is not about belief - it's about evidence. Of all people, the head of the EPA should have the utmost respect for this evidence and its transparent communication. Pruitt's choice to destroy carefully vetted scientific information rather than preserve it is a reckless and dangerous abdication of his responsibility.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Twitter: @CapitalWeather 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 25, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Without action on climate change, say goodbye to polar bears
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 10, 2017 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0943 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Darryl Fears
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 As the Arctic warms faster than any other place on the planet and sea ice shrinks, there is only one sure way to save polar bears from extinction, the government announced Monday: decisive action on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In a final plan to save an animal that greatly depends on ice to catch prey, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service identified the rapid decline of sea ice as "the primary threat to polar bears" and said "the single most important achievement for polar bear conservation is decisive action to address Arctic warming" driven by emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Short of action that effectively addresses the primary cause of diminishing sea ice," the agency's plan said, "it is unlikely that polar bears will be recovered."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That determination puts the plan itself on thin ice. Global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , of course, is not under the control of Fish and Wildlife, a division of the Interior Department. An international effort to address the issue was signed about a year ago in Paris, but President-elect Donald Trump has questioned U.S. participation in a treaty that nearly 190 governments signed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When asked after his election about the human link to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , Trump said: "I think there is some connectivity. ... It depends on how much." He also said he would keep an open mind about the international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  accord and whether his administration would withdraw from it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the president-elect has openly doubted the consensus of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is driven by human activity. In 2012, he tweeted that "the concept of global warming was created for and by the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Polar bear researchers had doubts about the species's survival before Trump's election.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Even when we started the planning process, that was the discussion we were having ... are we wasting our time here?" said Jenifer Kohout, deputy assistant director for Fish and Wildlife's Alaska region and a co-chair of the group that wrote the plan.        
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We wanted this plan to partially tell that story," she said, but to also show that there were other steps that could save bears, such as adjusting hunting regulations. Indigenous people and state officials participated in forming the plan. Another step was to find ways to deter hungry bears drawn to human garbage, so that fewer of them are destroyed because of fears they endanger humans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Polar bears were listed as threatened by Fish and Wildlife under the Endangered Species Act in 2008, which automatically qualified the species as "depleted" under the Marine Mammal Protection Act. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Under both acts, Fish and Wildlife is required to develop a plan for their recovery with an analysis of why they are threatened, the cost of restoring their populations and the time it will take to do it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The new recovery plan distills earlier science that foresaw the extinction of polar bears in a warming world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fish and Wildlife also established a Polar Bear Recovery Team of representatives from federal agencies, Alaska, the North Slope Borough, Alaska Native organizations, industry, nonprofit organizations and the Canadian Wildlife Service.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Together, they are showing Alaskans how starving polar bears are attracted to their garbage, which brings them closer to humans, leading to their slaughter and hastening their decline. With Native organizations that rely on bear meat for nutrition, the team came up with a system where the number of bears that can be hunted rises and falls depending on the population.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For many observers, the concern about polar bears is odd because more of the animals exist now than 40 years ago, when protections against hunting were minimal. Scientists say about 19 populations make up an estimated 25,000 to 31,000 bears, including a subpopulation of about 3,000 that roam Alaska.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But researchers say 80 percent of the populations will almost certainly collapse if sea ice continues to decline. Air temperatures at the top of the world are rising twice as fast as temperatures in lower latitudes, resulting in significant ice melt, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We're quite confident that absent action to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , there would be very significant reduction in the range of polar bears," said Michael Runge, a U.S. Geological Survey research ecologist who served as the plan's co-chairman.         
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Even if the majority of bears die, the species can be saved if the ice stabilizes in the future so that they can hunt, find mates and find dens, Runge said. Polar bears, which are listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act, could be delisted if an improved 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and stronger ice increase their likelihood of survival.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The plan said the outlook is grim for polar bears only if governments do nothing to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , said David Douglas, another USGS researcher. If they limit some greenhouse gases, even if Trump withdraws the United States from the Paris 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  agreement, polar bears will have a slightly better chance of survival.        
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There are two ends of a spectrum. One is not hopeless," he said.        
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Without an aggressive call to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , the plan is toothless, said Shaye Wolf, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  science director for the Center for Biological Diversity. Allowing for massive reductions in polar populations, including the possible extinction of the bears in Alaska, Wolf said, is unacceptable.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "This recovery plan is too risky for the polar bear. Recovery plans work, but only if they truly address the threats to the species," she said. "Sadly, that simply isn't the case with this polar bear plan."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 darryl.fears@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 10, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 More 'quiet springs' feared as climate change upends routines of songbirds
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 May 17, 2017 Wednesday, Suburban Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A15
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0851 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Ben Guarino
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In 1962, Rachel Carson warned that pesticides, particularly DDT, would lead to springs without birdsong, as she wrote in her book "Silent Spring." Carson's forecast kick-started an environmental movement and was instrumental in the Environmental Protection Agency's decision to ban the pesticides 10 years later, so her descriptions of deathly quiet did not come to pass.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But the danger of a silent spring, according to ecologists who study birds, did not evaporate with DDT. The looming threat is not chemical but a 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in which spring begins increasingly earlier - or in rare cases, later - each year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The rate at which birds are falling out of sync with their environment is almost certainly unsustainable," ecologist Stephen J. Mayor told The Washington Post. Mayor, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Florida's Florida Museum of Natural History, echoed Carson: "We can end up with these increasingly quiet springs."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Certain migratory songbirds can't keep pace with the shifting start of spring, Mayor and his colleagues wrote in a Scientific Reports study published Monday. Previous research noted that, in specific areas, some species can adjust to an earlier spring start, among them wood thrushes, which breed sooner after arriving at Pennsylvania's Laurel Highlands. But the new study was the first to survey songbirds across the entire North American continent. For 48 songbird species, the mismatch between arrival date and the onset of spring grew by an average of half a day per year between 2001 and 2012.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Of the species studied, nine fared the worst, with a yawning gap between their arrival date and the spring shift: blue-winged warblers, eastern wood-pewees, great crested flycatchers, indigo buntings, northern parulas, rose-breasted grosbeaks, scarlet tanagers, Townsend's warblers and yellow-billed cuckoos. In the case of the cuckoos, for instance, spring greenery started growing 1.2 days earlier per year, although the birds arrived, on average, 0.2 days early. Put another way, the timing mismatch increased by an average of one day annually.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The report combined satellite data with bird sightings all over North America, splitting the continent into 120-by-120-mile sections. "The novel thing about this paper is the scale at which they are showing the effect," said Wesley M. Hochachka, an ecologist at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology in New York who was not involved with this report.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Using satellite imagery, the study's authors tracked the start of green-up, the sudden burst of photosynthetic activity that begins in early spring in North America. As seen from the sky, green-up is an explosion of leaves. This brings out droves of hungry caterpillars and other plant-eating insects. These bugs are a crucial food supply for songbirds, which travel northward to eat and breed after spending the winter in South or Central America.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This invertebrate buffet lasts for a limited time. In oak forests, for instance, insects find the young leaves quite tasty. But as the foliage ages, the oak trees deposit bitter tannin compounds in their leaves, making the plant matter difficult to digest or downright inedible. If the birds' timing is off, they may arrive to find their habitats impoverished of food.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Songbirds leave Central or South America timed according to 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in daylight. Departure dates vary yearly but not wildly. Meanwhile in the north, Mayor said, "time for green-up is shifting with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and becoming more unpredictable." In the Eastern United States, spring green-up started earlier and earlier.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Townsend's warbler habitat and some other western regions, green-up was delayed later each year during the study period. The reasons for the lag are not yet fully understood, the scientists said, although Hochachka theorized that a lack of rainfall could play a role.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The study's authors also tracked when birds arrived in the north using data from Cornell University's eBird project, a compendium of 400 million sightings submitted by birdwatchers since the early 2000s. (The citizen-science eBird program fuels North American bird research, Hochachka said, in a way no other continent can match.)
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There was some good news from these sightings, Mayor said. "At least 80 percent of the species don't seem to be dramatically affected yet," he said. Some songbird species may make up for lost springtime by flying north faster.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Mayor emphasized that the researchers selected the 48 songbird species to study because they were commonly spotted.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The fact that scientists found nine pronounced mismatches in a relatively short time span was notable, Hochachka said. "If birds aren't arriving when insects emerge in the spring, we could see things like insect outbreaks or defoliation," Mayor said. "There are many potential impacts that we don't have a good handle on yet."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And unlike the case of "Silent Spring," any given EPA ban cannot curb this trend. Mayor recommended that bird fans continue to contribute data to eBird, given its scientific value. "Getting outside and observing these birds is important," he said.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ben.guarino@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0May 17, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Firms need to cooperate to fight climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 13, 2019 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0861 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Reed Hundt
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 If the United States is going to address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  with the urgency the danger merits, U.S. companies could play a vital role by acting in concert to help prevent the looming catastrophe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A hint of how their cooperation might work could be seen last month when 181 chief executives who are members of the Business Roundtable signed on to a new "Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation." The statement's community-minded goals included a vow to "protect the environment by embracing sustainable practices across our businesses."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Such coordinated efforts could make a vital difference in the fight against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , yet just a few weeks after the Business Roundtable's announcement came evidence of how difficult pursuing that goal could be under an administration hostile to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  concerns.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Justice Department has launched an antitrust investigation of four automakers - Ford, Honda, Volkswagen and BMW of North America - over an alliance they struck with the state of California to maintain higher fuel-efficiency standards than those the Trump administration is seeking.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As an antitrust lawyer for several decades and a former government official in charge of promoting competition in the communications industry, I can see how antitrust law could be tortured into a weapon wielded against joint corporate good deeds. That's why companies need to act now to prevent such abuse.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the case of the agreement regarding the California emissions standard, a prosecutor or plaintiffs' lawyer could contend that the automakers' efforts to keep fuel efficiency higher than necessary by a new government standard would raise prices for consumers. The lawyers might further argue that such an agreement would deter a low-cost, high-emissions entrant from entering the market.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If the automakers were found to have agreed to, in effect, raise prices or prevent competitive entry, they might be in trouble on antitrust grounds. They might not even be permitted to defend themselves by maintaining that they were trying to help avert a global environmental disaster or save countless lives by restricting the number of cancer-causing particulates injected into the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Under normal circumstances, this clash between questionable legal theory and real-world necessity could be avoided through an exercise of prosecutorial discretion. But this is the Trump administration. The White House's indifference to combating 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  can be seen in its commitment to expanding coal's market share, to scuttling the Paris agreement on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and to reversing the Obama administration's requirement for more-efficient automobile engines. Prosecutorial discretion in the California case is unlikely.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Major U.S. companies need protection from antitrust law so they can feel free to work together in the fight against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , without fear of prosecution by the Trump administration or any future administration that shares its benighted environmental views.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Firms such as those in the Fortune 500 should jointly take at least three steps to achieve this end.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 First, petition Congress to pass a law immunizing all joint action taken to adopt energy-reducing practices and curtail greenhouse-gas emissions. Under the First Amendment-based Noerr-Pennington doctrine - the result of two Supreme Court cases in the 1960s - firms can cooperate to seek the passage of laws without violating the antitrust law's proscription on anticompetitive agreement. If President Trump vetoes the bill, revive it under a friendlier administration - the battle against global warming will be waged for decades.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Second, the companies should pool resources to fund research into energy efficiency and greenhouse-gas- reduction technologies that they agree  to give away to anyone who wants them. Doing so would be a cost indirectly imposed on consumers and shareholders. That could be a potential antitrust concern in other areas, but joint research to produce commonly available technologies does not violate the antitrust laws. It is also common practice and, in this context, a necessity.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Third, firms should argue to courts that collective action to save the planet is a good defense against any antitrust complaint. A virtue of U.S. antitrust law is that its core statute, the 1890 Sherman Antitrust Act, finds its interpretation principally in judicial rulings and not in statute. Courts thus have the power to declare that the imperative of winning the battle against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  bars public or private antitrust action against collaborating firms. As soon as business can find the right test case, it should collectively seek a definitive ruling from the highest court.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Far from being scared off by the Trump administration's apparent intention to use antitrust laws against them, U.S. companies should know that the legal system would be on their side if, say, they agreed to impose carbon taxes on themselves or to move their entire global supply chains to renewable energy. Let the collaboration begin.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Reed Hundt was chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 1993 to 1997 and is the author of "A Crisis Wasted: Barack Obama's Defining Decisions."          
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 13, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 How might Trump affect efforts to slow pace of climate change?
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 13, 2016 Sunday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A17
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01198 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Anthony Faiola;Chris Mooney
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0BERLIN
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 BERLIN - He called global warming a Chinese conspiracy and suggested a "big fat dose" of it might make frosty days more pleasant. Now the pending arrival of a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  denier to the White House has left scientists and treaty backers around the globe scrambling to reassess the path ahead to save Earth.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump's rise, they fear, will elevate to the highest halls of power a school of thought considered largely fringe: that human activity may not be behind the planet's warming. Following the Republican's surprise victory, a cloud of anxiety has settled over international observers and negotiators meeting at a United Nations conference in Morocco - where they are trying to hash out details of the Paris Agreement struck last year in which more than 190 countries including the United States agreed to cut carbon emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Global leaders see the deal as key to combating potentially planet-ruining effects, including rising seas that could submerge coastal cities or fierce 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  in weather patterns that could threaten global food supplies. But Trump has vowed to back out of the treaty - as well as to nix other green initiatives pushed by President Obama.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The center of the U.S. pledge is an ambitious promise to reduce by 2025 the country's greenhouse-gas emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels. Not only has Trump threatened to step back from the Paris Agreement and the domestic Clean Power Plan, which would drive much of those reductions, but he also wants to fire up domestic coal, oil and gas industries in a manner that might trigger an emissions increase.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That prospect is setting off alarm bells among officials and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  experts from Beijing to Berlin.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I think he will be able to delay implementation in the U.S. if he chooses, and I think the rest of the world has to make a decision whether it will slow down or speed up because of this," said Christoph Bals, policy director at Germanwatch and an observer at the U.N. conference in Morocco. "This will be the debate we will have in the next couple of months. I hope that most countries will decide to move on, because there are very serious consequences."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As with other of his most polarizing campaign pledges, it remains unclear whether Trump will follow through with his threat. But his selection of Myron Ebell, a well-known 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  contrarian, to lead his Environmental Protection Agency transition team suggests Trump may mean business. So far, individuals close to or orchestrating Trump's energy and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  policy appear to have close ties to the fossil-fuel industry and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -skeptic movement.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A U.S. withdrawal from the treaty, some argue, eventually could lead other reluctant nations, particularly in the developing world, to rethink their commitments. That would be especially true if the United States backs out of a part of the plan involving financial aid to help poorer countries make the transition to cleaner fuels and adapt to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Many developing-country pledges are conditional on financial support, and if the U.S. refuses to provide its fair share of the funding, the financial resources needed for developing countries to reduce their emissions will not materialize, and many conditional pledges will not be realized," said Robert Watson, a prominent 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientist at the University of East Anglia who previously chaired the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and who called a Trump presidency a "potential disaster" for the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One country where the United States' stance, if it retreats from the Paris process, could cause difficulties is India, which is quickly hurtling toward becoming a global energy giant like China.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Andrew Light, the former senior 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiator at the State Department who led bilateral engagement with India before the Paris meeting and is now a professor at George Mason University, said India is unlikely to pull back from its ongoing domestic energy revamp regardless of what Trump does. But a U.S. pullout could complicate talks by reopening already settled debates, such as how much of the burden developed nations should shoulder.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 India might "revert back to a claim that developed countries caused this problem in the first place and they're the ones who should solve it," Light said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 From Morocco, Alden Meyer, director of strategy for the Union of Concerned Scientists, described a new sense of unease at the U.N. conference. But so far, no nation has indicated its will to walk away if the United States does so, he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 If Trump takes a divergent path, however, remaining nations would quickly need to redraft plans to limit the damage. A pullout, Meyer warned, also could flood into other areas of global diplomacy, leaving Washington with a diminished voice on security, trade and other issues.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Frankly," Meyer said, the other countries at the Morocco conference "think the U.S. would be somewhat stupid to be not engaged in this process."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Several factors may help limit the damage, even if Trump's America bails. One saving grace, observers said, is China's increasingly strong commitment to curbing emissions, in part to address a dramatic pollution crisis at home. A week before the U.S. elections, China's chief negotiator on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , Xie Zhenhua, sharply criticized Trump's position. "I believe a wise political leader should take policy stances that conform with global trends," he said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Said Laurence Blandford, director of international policy analysis at the Center for Clean Air Policy, "This is a big opportunity for the Chinese to take leadership and ownership of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  direction, and they may just do that." If the United States does pull out of the treaty, he said, "progress would continue but perhaps not as fast as before."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Also helping is that renewable energies such as solar and wind power are becoming dramatically less expensive, to the point where they are competitive with fossil fuels. That means market forces could propel them forward in the United States with or without federal backing.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In addition, Blandford said, international outreach to U.S. states could partially offset the impact of a federal withdrawal from the treaty.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "California is not going to stop what it's doing on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , even if Trump does," Blandford said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet breaking away from the agreement would be no easy task. It came into legal force shortly before the U.S. election, and once a party has joined it, the agreement's text states that a nation cannot withdraw for four years. That would seem, on its face, to rule out Trump's simply exiting the accord.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 However, Trump could guide a response in which the United States withdraws in all but name, pulling the country out of meetings or simply refusing to meet domestic emissions targets. If the Trump administration does not live up to that, the main penalty would be little more than censure and criticism from other countries.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump energy adviser Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.) also has suggested that the Trump administration might submit the agreement to the Senate for ratification - a vote on which would probably fail.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 anthony.faiola@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 chris.mooney@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Stephanie Kirchner in Berlin contributed to this report.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 13, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Denying climate change insults victims
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 September 12, 2017 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0770 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Eugene Robinson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 When, if not now, is the time to talk about global warming and what to do about it? The answer from the Trump administration and the Republican Party, basically, is succinct in its willful ignorance: "How about never? Is never good for you?"
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 No rational U.S. administration would look at the devastation from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma and seek to deny 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . At present, however, there is no rational U.S. administration.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We have instead a president and an Environmental Protection Agency chief who refuse to acknowledge the obvious. Thoughts and prayers are welcome at times such as these, but they are insincere if not supplemented by analysis and action. Future megastorms will likely be worse, scientists say; the question for policymakers is to what degree.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 According to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, for scientists to "use time and effort to address" the cause of these massive, anomalous storms would be "very, very insensitive to [the] people in Florida." If I search the archives, I can come up with a few statements from Trump administration officials that are more irresponsible, but not many.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Why did Harvey dump unprecedented, almost biblical amounts of rainfall on Houston and its environs? Why did Irma spend longer as a Category 5 storm than any other Atlantic hurricane on record? Why, for the first time anyone knows of, did we have two Atlantic Category 4 storms make U.S. landfall in the same season? Why did we have two major hurricanes (Irma and Jose) and a third, somewhat lesser storm (Katia) churning at the same time?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As deniers frequently point out, no individual weather event can be definitively blamed on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . But the World Meteorological Organization released a statement concluding that "the rainfall rates associated with Harvey were likely made more intense by anthropogenic 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ." And regarding Irma, the WMO cited models showing that "hurricanes in a warmer 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are likely to become more intense."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There are established linkages between a storm's severity and factors such as sea levels, ocean temperatures and the position of prevailing currents such as the jet stream. Global warming has altered all of those parameters.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This is precisely the moment when scientists at the EPA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Weather Service, NASA and other agencies ought to be laser-focused on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . They should study the characteristics and impacts of this season's hurricanes to better understand what 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  global warming has wrought thus far. And I'm confident they will do so - unless their work is hampered by political hacks.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  never should have become a partisan issue in the first place. There is no red or blue spin on the fact that humans have burned enough fossil fuels since the Industrial Revolution to increase the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by more than 40 percent; or that carbon dioxide traps heat; or that global land and ocean temperatures have shot up; or that Arctic ice is melting; or that sea levels are rising. These things are directly measurable and true.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Global warming cuts no slack for political affiliation - as Republican Govs. Greg Abbott of Texas and Rick Scott of Florida now should humbly acknowledge.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But because the GOP cynically positions itself as anti-science, times of trial can never be the right time to talk about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Nor can times when there are no storms. We're supposed to wait for the next Harvey, Irma or Katrina - then zip our lips out of "respect" for the victims.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 President Trump may sincerely disbelieve the scientific consensus or he may be just pretending - it's hard to tell. He continues to peddle his fantasy of "beautiful, clean coal" and his empty promise to bring back the industry. Maybe he really doesn't grasp that coal was crushed not by government regulation but by the advent of cheap, plentiful natural gas due to fracking.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And maybe Trump doesn't get the fact that the rest of the world recognizes both the environmental and the economic benefits of clean-energy technologies. It is likely, I believe, that at some point there will be world-
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  breakthroughs in solar power, battery capacity and nuclear fusion. I hope these advances are made in the United States; I fear they will be made in China, Japan or Germany.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Trump administration should at least be insisting that coastal communities in Texas and Florida be rebuilt taking 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  into account. Sea- level rise is an unquestioned fact; the cruelest insult to those now suffering would be to pretend it is not.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 eugenerobinson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0September 12, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dutch defense against climate change: Adapt; As the world works to prevent disaster, the Netherlands plans for it
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 6, 2009 Sunday, Met 2 Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2009 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Maryland
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A01
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01376 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Anthony Faiola and Juliet Eilperin
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0AMSTERDAM
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 With the Copenhagen summit starting Monday, chances remain uncertain for a historic breakthrough in the fight to prevent 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but the Netherlands is leading a fight of a different kind: How to live with global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As sea levels swell and storms intensify, the Dutch are spending billions of euros on "floating communities" that can rise with surging flood waters, on cavernous garages that double as urban floodplains and on re-engineering parts of a coastline as long as North Carolina's. The government is engaging in "selective relocation" of farmers from flood-prone areas and expanding rivers and canals to contain anticipated swells.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The measures are putting this water world of dikes, levies and pumps that have kept Dutch feet dry for centuries ahead of the rest of the world in adapting to harsher 
\f1\i\b \ul climates
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  ahead.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Critics describe some of the efforts here as alarmist -- perhaps too much, too soon. But other experts see the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  defense system being built in the Netherlands as a model for other nations -- including the United States, where officials are seeking Dutch advice for how to protect New Orleans and other low-lying coastal cities.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As nations from Britain to Bangladesh come up with survival strategies, the Dutch approach underscores a shift in thinking among scientists, planners and politicians, who only a few years ago viewed talk of adapting to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as akin to environmental surrender.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although almost everyone agrees that setting lower emission targets will be vital at the two-week summit in Copenhagen, a growing chorus of experts now argues that it might already be too late to prevent temperatures from rising for the next 50 to 100 years. Finding ways for nations to live with 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could be the more pressing challenge.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet the effort in the Netherlands -- where officials expect to spend $100 a person per year on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -proofing over the next century -- also illustrates one of the biggest sources of friction among the leaders, including President Obama, converging in Copenhagen for the summit: As countries move toward costly 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  defense systems, how will poorer nations cover the price tag of shoring up sinking cities and irrigating drier farmlands?
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Those nations are seeking billions in fresh aid from rich countries at Copenhagen, arguing that the industrialized world must compensate them for the warmer planet it is largely responsible for creating. A recent study by the World Bank found developing nations would need $75 billion to $100 billion a year over the next four decades to adapt to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Project Catalyst, an offshoot of the nonprofit ClimateWorks, suggests a price from $26 billion to $77 billion a year until 2030.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Adaptation is going to prove to be the most difficult, the most combative, and, in many ways, the most important part of the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiations," said Tim Wirth, president of the U.N. Foundation, adding that when it comes to global warming, "the people who are most impacted are the ones who have the least voice. That's going to emerge as a very important political dispute."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Although industrialized countries have historically said they are willing to help cover those costs, they have done little to deliver on that promise. But White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said in a statement Friday that "there appears to be an emerging consensus that a core element of the Copenhagen accord should be to mobilize $10 billion a year by 2012 to support adaptation and mitigation in developing countries, particularly the most vulnerable and least developed countries that could be destabilized by the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . The United States will pay its fair share of that amount and other countries will make substantial commitments as well."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The United Nations Framework Convention on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , which governs the international talks, created a "Least Developed Countries Fund" in 2001. But it has yet to receive the full $180 million pledged eight years ago by rich nations. At the Group of Eight meeting last year in Japan, the United States  pledged to give $2 billion over three years to the World Bank for 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related activities, including clean technology and adaptation. But the U.S. budget for fiscal year 2009 provided nothing for the adaptation fund, and the 2010 budget bills in the House and Senate -- which have yet to be reconciled -- both give $75 million to the fund, $25 million less than the administration requested. "Governments have said they want to address adaptation and they're willing to fund it, but the pledges themselves have not been enough to meet the need," said David Waskow, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  program director for Oxfam America.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Spurred by the debate, however, nations both rich and poor are moving as never before to plan for the era of global warming.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Most, like the United States, are in the early stages. This summer, the Obama administration established a 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Adaptation Task Force. Under an executive order the president signed in October, the group will produce a national adaptation strategy. The task force is exploring everything from how to integrate 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  planning into federal operations, to helping local communities respond to its future effects.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Bangladesh, one of the world's most flood-prone countries, has adopted a 10-year 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  action plan, seeking international assistance for early warning systems for cyclones as well as new storm shelters and drainage systems. The tiny Indian Ocean island nation of Maldives is ramping up seawalls and exploring houses on stilts, while warning it might need to buy land in Sri Lanka, Australia or elsewhere to relocate its population. A new British plan seeks to further reinforce defenses against the rising Thames River while bluntly stating some existing communities may have to be moved. Arid countries such as Egypt, meanwhile, are preparing for drier times. With the aid of the Dutch, they are experimenting with an irrigation system using moisture sensors to grow crops using 50 percent less water.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "A few years ago, people thought you were a defeatist if you talked about adaptation to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ," said Malcolm Fergusson, head of 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  at Britain's Environment Agency. "We say that mitigation is important but so is adaptation, and the two go together."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 No country, however, has gone as far as this nation of 16 million with a land mass two-thirds under sea level that exists largely by the grace of water engineering. Because flooding is an ever-present threat, all Dutch children must learn to swim with their clothes on by age 6; the government provides universal flood insurance to homeowners.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The dike and levy system here underwent a major refortification after devastating floods in 1953 that killed nearly 2,000 people. In recent years, mega-projects have sprung up as the Dutch seek ways to adapt to rising water levels, with even more ambitious projects planned for years ahead -- in part through the Netherlands Water Partnership, a public-private venture being modeled by nations in Europe and beyond.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In Rotterdam, city officials opted to invest in new parks, city squares and parking garages now under construction that effectively double as Rotterdam's drainage system, filling with water during heavy floods to keep streets, buildings and homes above water. In east Amsterdam, one of three new floating communities going up across Holland looks like an aquatic suburbia. The homes are built on floating platforms of reinforced concrete and literally rise with floodwaters, offering a glimpse into how lifestyles may 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as costal areas adapt.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 David Goulooze, 40, a software salesman, and Mirjam Stoll, 29,  a teacher, were among the first residents when the homes, starting at about $600,000, began selling last year. Although little different in appearance from any sleek, modern house on land, the hanging light fixtures in the couple's  dining room gently rock even in good weather. Goulooze and Stoll   still find themselves getting seasick now and again.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "We know that worst of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is a long way off, but we feel like pioneers," Goulooze said. "The Dutch have this in their genes. Everything is a fight against the water. We just have to start fighting harder."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs28 Graphic
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 IMAGE; Photos By Andrea Bruce/the Washington Post; At top, residents of Ijburg in the Netherlands, outside of Amsterdam, have turned to living in a floating neighborhood. The homes rise with floodwaters, offering a glimpse into how lifestyles may 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as coastal areas adapt. In a national of canals, at left, officials have opted to invest in new parks, city squares and parking garages that effectively double as a drainage system, filling with water during heavy floods to keep streets, buildings and homes above water.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE; Photos By Andrea Bruce/the Washington Post; At top, residents of Ijburg in the Netherlands, outside of Amsterdam, have turned to living in a floating neighborhood. The homes rise with floodwaters, offering a glimpse into how lifestyles may 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as coastal areas adapt. In a national of canals, at left, officials have opted to invest in new parks, city squares and parking garages that effectively double as a drainage system, filling with water during heavy floods to keep streets, buildings and homes above water.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 IMAGE
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 6, 2009
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Reading, writing, climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 June 9, 2015 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0729 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Catherine Rampell
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Dateline:
\f3\b0 \'a0BERLIN
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 BERLIN
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I'm in a different country, but sometimes it feels like I'm on a different planet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 I realize that's a clich\'e9, but in a way it's true. The planet comes up in Germany a lot, and it doesn't sound anything like the one I live on in the United States.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At home, our planet is doing more or less okay. And if it's not - if, instead, the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is slowly 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  - there's not much we can do about it. A third of Americans say that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is not a serious problem or not a problem at all, according to a recent YouGov survey. Just one in 10 Germans feel the same way.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's little wonder why.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the United States, where Republican politicians compete to out-doubt each other on the issue, we're still fighting over whether schoolchildren can be taught that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is real. In Germany, children have been learning about sustainability and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  for years.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 And the efforts are only intensifying.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Take Emmy-Noether-Schule, an 800-student secondary school in east Berlin I visited recently. Educators there consider 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  so pressing that they integrate it into just about every class you can think of (including, when the instructor is so inclined, Latin). About a quarter of the content in the 10th-grade English textbook, for example, is about threats to planet Earth. That means when kids learn to use the conditional mood in English, their grammar exercises rely on sentences like this: "If we don't do something about global warming, more polar ice will start to melt."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Likewise, in an 11th-grade geography class dedicated entirely to sustainability, students write poetry about klimawandel (
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ). My favorite couplet, from an ode by student Hannah Carsted: "The water level rises/ The fish are in a crisis."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 During my visit, Hannah and her classmates asked me about U.S. skepticism on an issue that, as far as the rest of the world is concerned, seems fairly settled. Why haven't Americans been chastened by extreme weather events, such as Hurricane Sandy or the California drought (yes, they knew about both), that are predicted to proliferate if we do nothing to curb carbon emissions? Why don't we believe what scientists tell us? I tried to explain the vast, vocal network of conspiracy theorists who believe that 97 percent of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  scientists have been hoaxing the world - and who have created a parallel universe of pseudoscience to prove it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "That just seems unimaginable," another student declared. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's easy to write off this reaction as unique to crunchy-granola east Berlin, which is kind of the Berkeley of Germany. But the textbook I mentioned is used throughout the country, and this summer German education ministers will issue guidelines for teaching sustainability in English, French, Spanish, the visual arts, music, history, mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics and even phys-ed. And similar efforts are underway in developing economies such as the Dominican Republic, South Africa, Vietnam, Kenya and Mauritius, according to Alexander Leicht, UNESCO'S chief of the Education for Sustainable Development section. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In France, as in Germany, course work on sustainability and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  has been part of most schools' curricula for a while (partly the result of a 1992 U.N. treaty that the United States also signed, then ignored). And as France gears up to host a major U.N. 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  conference in December, education officials are exploring whether to require every French school to conduct its own model-U.N.-style simulated negotiation in which students play-act international negotiations on emissions targets, then learn what happens to our (shared) planet as their efforts succeed. Or, perhaps more likely, stall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The American public seems a bit less interested in those U.N. proceedings, let alone in simulating them in schools nationwide. The French foreign minister warned recently that the talks will be hamstrung by the toxicity of the issue in the United States. Which seems true enough; in that YouGov survey, which was conducted in 15 countries across four continents, Americans were not only most likely to express indifference about 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ; we were also most likely to say our own government was already "doing too much" to stop it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What intrusive government interventions could these Americans possibly be referring to? That, dear friends, remains unimaginable.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 crampell@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0June 9, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Climate change is a security issue
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 November 19, 2016 Saturday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0222 words
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The sobering Nov. 13 news article "Trump is about to learn all of 'our deep secrets'" reported that the responsibility to oversee covert federal operations seeking to avoid nuclear war, avert cyberattacks and thwart mass-scale terrorism has awed and humbled previous presidents. How will such knowledge affect President-elect Donald Trump? Surely his pre- inauguration briefings will include secret military plans regarding one of our darkest secrets: the growing security risks of economic and political destabilization from our 
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The Pentagon has publicly acknowledged global warming as a threat multiplier; soon, Mr. Trump will know our military plans to respond as tropical diseases spread, water and food supplies dwindle and refugee populations expand as weather patterns transform and ocean levels rise. Perhaps the intelligence briefings will open the president-elect's mind to the ideas of progressive Republican Gifford Pinchot, who wrote in the 1940s: "World-wide practice of Conservation and the fair and continued access by all nations to the resources they need are the two indispensable foundations of continuous plenty and of permanent peace." Or perhaps Mr.Trump will continue to ignore the escalating threats of global 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and, to our peril, learn nothing at all.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Julie Dunlap , Columbia 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0November 19, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 As the climate changes, so must our horticultural strategies
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 April 20, 2017 Thursday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2017 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Prince George's County
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0METRO; Pg. T14
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01089 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Adrian Higgins
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Some gardeners are telling me that the tulip display is coming up short, literally. Blooms that should be hovering as high as three feet are at about two.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The reason for this may be linked to the spikes in temperatures in February, the warmest on record for Washington. This, in turn, may have denied tulips the amount of uninterrupted cold temperatures they need for proper development.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Is this connected to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ? Probably. In the decades I've been gardening in the Washington area, I've seen winters get warmer and shorter, summers longer and hotter, and the arrival of new pests and diseases. This was the first winter I remember February swapping places with March. I'm told I should get used to it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The harlequin bug, once a destructive (if pretty) insect of the lower South, is now a regular visitor to my cole crops. My fishpond doesn't have alligators or wood storks yet, but it's still fairly early in the week. Sweet corn, tomatoes and pepper plants, once the very stuff of summers, are now stressed by too much heat. The Japanese banana plant barely needs a light mulch to return after a winter in the ground, and pomegranate trees are doing fine, thank you. In Georgetown, the agapanthus, from Africa, is emerging from the ground. Rose bushes in protected city gardens continued to grow through the winter with no seasonal dormancy, until the freeze in March zapped the tender growth.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Virginia bluebells used to flower at the end of April in these parts; now they appear at the beginning. The same is true for lilacs.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These empirical realities are underpinned by scientific data showing that in recent decades, the oceans have warmed rapidly, the ice sheets are melting and the weather is more extreme, and experts believe that greenhouse gases from human activity are behind it.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 This is accepted science in most of the world, but in some corridors of power in Washington, skepticism rules. President Trump has called 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  a hoax, and his head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, has stated that he doesn't think human-fueled greenhouse gases are "a primary contributor to the global warming that we see." Pruitt is a politico from Oklahoma, a state where the oil derricks are (at least) as high as an elephant's eye.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On April 22, Earth Day, organizers of the March for Science will hold a rally and march on the Mall in opposition to the administration's stance on science, 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and related public policy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A week later, a group named the Peoples 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  Movement has planned a demonstration outside the White House in opposition to the president's "attacks on our 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gardeners, meanwhile, can think globally but act locally, one of those platitudes that has kept its cogency.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There aren't many areas of our lives where we have control, but we have pretty good control over what we do in our yards," said Sara Via, a 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  specialist with the University of Maryland's extension service. "There's an astonishing number of back yards in America."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Together, they have 42 million acres of lawn - "more than the acreage planted in corn. People ask, 'What can I do?' One thing you can do is phase out your lawn," she said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 She said gas-powered lawn and garden equipment produces a significant amount of carbon pollution. In addition, synthetic nitrogen fertilizers are made by burning lots of natural gas.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Fertilizer runoff pollutes waterways but, as it breaks down, can also add to air pollution. When it comes to nutrient runoff, homeowners pollute at a rate 10 times greater than farmers, said Via, "because homeowners don't know what they're doing."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another way to reduce your carbon footprint is to grow your own fruits and vegetables organically. The right tree, well placed, can shade your house and further reduce your energy consumption.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "Mention 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and people just want to put their head inside the pillow, but if you say, 'Here's what you can do,' people say, 'Yeah, let's try something,' " Via said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 For environmentally savvy gardeners, there is another problem - in distinguishing between freakish weather and 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . Serious gardeners are so attuned to the vicissitudes of the elements that even the most extreme floods, droughts, storms and heat waves can be viewed as strangely normal.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "What people don't recognize is that we have moved out of the territory of the kind of variation people are used to, and we are in new territory where it's more extreme," Via said. "Average temperatures have warmed, we have fewer colder nights - it's not the same thing."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Janet Young, of Montgomery County Master Gardeners, lectures on gardening techniques in this new environment. Because tomato and pepper plants reduce fruit set and suffer poor quality in extreme heat, she advises shielding them with shade cloth. Another approach is to sow winter cover crops in late summer as a way of excluding weeds (one of the plant beneficiaries of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ) and enriching the soil without fertilizers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Gardening simply requires greater vigilance than before; insect pests may have three generations a year instead of one, and you have to check them before they get out of hand.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "You may want to get out there and weed as early as January, instead of March or April," Young said. She is working with others to develop a list of plant varieties bred for better tolerance to environmental stresses.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another strategy is to expand the range of plants in your garden to include those that can endure more cold, more heat, more drought.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At the New York Botanical Garden, "we are incorporating plants from 
\f1\i\b \ul climates
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  similar to ours but more extreme," said Todd Forrest, vice president for horticulture and living collections. These include trees and shrubs native to the Caucasus and more plants from Southern states.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "I don't know whether they will survive, but we need to broaden the palette of plants that  might  survive," Forrest said. Unfortunately, the patterns of 
\f1\i\b \ul change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are not simply a case of plants that once worked in Georgia now growing dependably in Washington, he said, "because you're still going to have colder weather than Atlanta."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "There is no easy answer," he said. "Be a better-informed gardener, be willing to experiment, pay attention to 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and talk to other gardeners."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Another response is simpler - pause to savor, say, an April shower or a fresh spring morning that requires a sweater. "As a gardener, when we have a beautiful or seasonal day, I tend to be thankful for the rare experience of normalcy," Forrest said.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 @adrian_higgins on Twitter
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0April 20, 2017
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tackling climate change from both sides of the aisle
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 March 10, 2019 Sunday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2019 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0638 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Lisa Murkowski;Joe Manchin
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, represents Alaska in the U.S. Senate. Joe Manchin, a Democrat, represents West Virginia in the U.S. Senate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The two of us have more in common than might meet the eye. We come from different parties, but we are both avid outdoorsmen and represent states that take great pride in the resources we provide to the nation and to friends and allies around the world. Alaska and West Virginia know that resource development and environmental stewardship must move in tandem, which is why we are committed to putting forward bipartisan solutions to help address 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 There is no question that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  is real or that human activities are driving much of it. We are seeing the impacts in our home states. Scientists tell us that the Arctic is warming at twice the rate of the rest of the world. Rising temperatures and diminishing sea ice on Alaska's shores are  affecting our fisheries and forcing some remote communities to seek partial or total relocation. In summer 2016, West Virginia experienced unprecedented flooding that killed 23 residents and inflicted tremendous damage across the state.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Congress is in the middle of a debate about the appropriate way to tackle 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . This is often portrayed as an issue with just two sides - those who support drastic, unattainable measures to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, and those who want to do nothing. We believe the time for sensationalism is over. And we are seeking ideas that will bring people together, rather than drive them apart.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 On the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, we are working together to find pragmatic policies that can draw strong and enduring support. In our hearings this year, we have heard from a range of experts who are helping us to gather facts that shape these efforts.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Just  last week, we held a hearing focused on 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and the electricity sector. We heard that utilities are pursuing cleaner energy technologies and integrating them into their networks. These 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  to the generation mix reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 28 percent between 2005 and 2017 and lowered costs to consumers.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Yet, our witnesses also agreed that to effectively mitigate the impacts of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , we must do more to pursue low- and zero-carbon technologies that will continue to lower emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The United States leads the world in research and development. Our national labs and universities are working toward the next scientific breakthrough, and private investors are pursuing the next game-
\f1\i\b \ul changing
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  technology. The United States is at the forefront of clean-energy efforts, including energy storage, advanced nuclear energy, and carbon capture, utilization and sequestration. We are committed to adopting reasonable policies that maintain that edge, build on and accelerate current efforts, and ensure a robust innovation ecosystem.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The impact of developing these new technologies will be felt by Americans from all walks of life, including residents of   rural communities  and other areas served by older technologies. Transitioning these communities to more efficient forms of energy will provide them with cleaner energy that is also more stable and has lower costs, which will bring about additional benefits.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 American ingenuity has solved many of the great challenges of our time and is key to addressing 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . If the United States is going to lead by example, we must continue to lead the world in the development of new and improved technologies. On the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, we agree it is time to act. And that is why we will work to find responsible solutions worthy of West Virginians, Alaskans and all Americans.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Lisa Murkowski, a Republican, represents Alaska in the U.S. Senate. Joe Manchin, a Democrat, represents West Virginia in the U.S. Senate.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0March 10, 2019
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Post can't have it both ways on climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 January 16, 2020 Thursday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2020 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0216 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Letters to the Editor
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R) may 'believe in' 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , but his actions promoting expansion of greenhouse-gas-emission-enabling highways belie this. And his real estate holdings have apparently made millions from this, according to John Willis, former Maryland secretary of state, now a University of Baltimore politics professor and historian of Maryland politics and government, and other research by Eric Cortellessa in Washington Monthly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So how to interpret whether the Post editorial board 'believes in' 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ? It publishes opinion pieces about the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  crisis, including the Jan. 7 'A warning to the world,' chastising governments for repeatedly failing to respond to 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .-
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But meanwhile 'The Post's View' also publishes opinion pieces, most recently on Jan. 10, 'One roadblock down,' on the virtues of Mr. Hogan's highway-expansion ambitions, without acknowledging the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  consequences of inducing yet more greenhouse-gas-emitting traffic, after greenhouse-gas-generating construction has replaced carbon-absorbing trees with more impermeable surfaces, contributing to flash floods and, ultimately, more Chesapeake Bay pollution.-
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 What exactly is The Post's View on local governments' responsibility for-
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ?-
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20  Sarah Lesher , Silver Spring
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0January 16, 2020
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A secret weapon to fight climate change: Dirt
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 6, 2015 Sunday, Every Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2015 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0OUTLOOK; Pg. B03
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a01335 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Debbie Barker;Michael Pollan
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 and Michael Pollan say we can slow warming with good old-fashioned farming
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 When Will Allen is asked to name the most beautiful part of his Vermont farm, he doesn't talk about the verdant, rolling hills or easy access to the Connecticut River. Though the space is a picturesque postcard of the agrarian idyll, Allen points down, to the dirt. "This precious resource not only grows food," he says, "but is one of the best methods we have for sequestering carbon." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 We think of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a consequence of burning fossil fuels. But a third of the carbon in the atmosphere today used to be in the soil, and modern farming is largely to blame. Practices such as the overuse of chemicals, excessive tilling and the use of heavy machinery disturb the soil's organic matter, exposing carbon molecules to the air, where they combine with oxygen to create carbon dioxide. Put another way: Human activity has turned the living and fertile carbon system in our dirt into a toxic atmospheric gas.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 It's possible to halt and even reverse this process through better agricultural policies and practices. Unfortunately, the world leaders who gathered in Paris this past week have paid little attention to the critical links between 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and agriculture. That's a huge mistake and a missed opportunity. Our unsustainable farming methods are a central contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , quite simply, cannot be halted without fixing agriculture.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The industrialization of farming has allowed farmers to grow more crops more quickly. But modern techniques have also wreaked havoc on the earth, water and atmosphere. Intense plowing, for example, has introduced more oxygen into the soil, boosting the microbes that convert organic matter into carbon dioxide. The quest to wring every last dollar out of fields has put pressure on farmers to rely on chemical fertilizers. This often leaves fields more bare between growing seasons, allowing carbon to escape into the air. Scientists estimate that cultivated soil has lost 50 to 70 percent of its carbon, speeding up 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone .
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 That loss has significantly degraded soil health, reducing our ability to grow food. Median crop yields are likely to decline by about 2 percent per decade through 2100, according to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on 
\f1\i\b \ul Climate Change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . At the same time, the world's population is projected to jump from 7 billion to 9 billion by 2050.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Water availability is also at risk. Currently, 1.6 billion people live in regions facing severe water scarcity; that number is expected to rise to 2.8 billion by 2025. Agriculture accounts for a whopping 70 percent of all water consumption. That's in large part because degraded soil doesn't absorb water efficiently. Instead, water sits on top of the ground and runs off (along with farm chemicals) into nearby waterways, creating toxic nitrogen "dead zones."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Remarkably, though, restoring carbon to the soil is not nearly as complicated as rethinking our transportation systems or replacing coal with renewable energy. Innovative farmers such as Allen already know the recipe.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 He and his team place "cover crops" in their fields, planting things like oats, rye and beans between rows of vegetables. This practice keeps carbon, nitrogen and other organic nutrients in the soil. "Keeping as much ground covered with plants as long as possible allows photosynthesis to draw down atmospheric carbon into soils," Allen says. A bare field, in contrast, represents a waste of photosynthetic potential. Allen also composts,  limits plowing and avoids synthetic chemicals like nitrogen fertilizers. In combination, these efforts have increased soil organic matter by 3 to 4 percent in just three years. Allen also sells some of his cover crops, adding farm income.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Allen's results are not unusual. Studies have shown that cover cropping, crop rotation and no-till farming could restore global soil health while significantly decreasing farms' carbon footprint. Some scientists project that 75 to 100 parts per million of CO2 could be drawn out of the atmosphere over the next century if existing farms, pastures and forestry systems were managed to maximize carbon sequestration. That's significant when you consider that CO2 levels passed 400 ppm this spring. Scientists agree that the safe level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is 350 ppm.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Regenerative farming would also increase the fertility of the land, making it more productive and better able to absorb and hold water, a critical function especially in times of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related floods and droughts. Carbon-rich fields require less synthetic nitrogen fertilizer and generate more productive crops, cutting farmer expenses.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 So why aren't we instituting policies to encourage this kind of "carbon farming"? For one thing, the science is new and not yet widely disseminated. Additionally, most of the incentives built into America's agricultural policies are based on maximizing yield, often at the expense of soil health.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Current federal policy, for example, limits the growing season for cover crops on the theory that they waste farmers' time and resources on products that can't be sold. Thus, farmers are denied full crop insurance, price supports and subsidies if they grow cover crops beyond a specified period of time. But viewing cover crops as a benefit instead of an impediment to cash crops would be the kind of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -smart policy we need. And, as farmers such as Allen have learned, some cover crops can also be commercialized.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Giving farmers incentives to switch from synthetic nitrogen fertilizers to organic fertilizers could also lead to healthier soil. Scientists at the University of California at Berkeley working with Marin County ranchers have found that applying a single layer of compost, less than an inch thick, to rangelands stimulates a burst of microbial and plant growth that sequesters dramatic amounts of carbon in the soil - more than 1.5 tons per acre. And research has shown that this happens not just once, but year after year. This is a win-win strategy, both for the 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  and the food system, since the additional carbon in the soil means more grass for cattle and more profit for ranchers. If the practice were replicated on half the rangeland area of California, it would sequester enough carbon to offset 42 million metric tons of CO2 emissions.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The possibilities are endless. What if our farmers received federal subsidies not just for bushels per acre, but for carbon sequestered or acres of cover crops planted? Many such 
\f1\i\b \ul changes
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could be made tomorrow at the agency level; they would not require congressional action. Incentives for carbon farming could also bridge the political chasm between ranchers, farmers and environmentalists. Even those farmers and ranchers who don't believe in 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  desire healthy soil, high productivity and lush grasslands. There is a rich opportunity here to completely realign the politics of agricultural and environmental policy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 America is not there quite yet, but other countries are pointing the way. This year, the French government launched the 4 Per 1000 initiative, the first international effort to restore carbon to the soil. Under the proposal, nations would commit to increasing the carbon in their cultivated lands by 0.4 percent per year. The French calculate that this would halt the annual increase in carbon dioxide emissions. Some emerging soil science estimates that we could store 50 to 75 percent of current global carbon emissions in the soil.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 In the United States, when the Dust Bowl crisis of the 1930s literally blew soil across the country, our government responded by implementing agriculture policies to ameliorate the problem. With the stakes even higher today, our politicians can once again enact policies to reward practices that rebuild soil carbon. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  
\f4\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 dbarker@centerforfoodsafety.org
\f3\i0 \cf0 \ulnone  Twitter: @MichaelPollan 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 2.8
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 billion people are expected by 2025 to live in regions facing severe water scarcity, up from 1.6 billion today.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 6, 2015
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The coming battle between economists and the Trump team over the true cost of climate change
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 27, 2016 Tuesday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0A-SECTION; Pg. A02
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0909 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Chelsea Harvey
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Early signs from the Donald Trump transition team suggest that his administration would alter or stop using an Obama-era metric known as the "social cost of carbon" in its federal rulemaking processes. That could have major effects on the way environmental policies are written or revised.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs20 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  could cause a wide variety of damage to human communities, including natural disasters, harm to human health, reduced agricultural output and lower economic productivity, all of which result in monetary costs to society. The social cost of carbon refers to such costs caused by emitting one ton of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 A questionnaire the transition team sent to the Energy Department requested a list of all "employees or contractors who have attended any Interagency Working Group on the Social Cost of Carbon meetings," as well as emails and other materials associated with those meetings. It also asked a variety of questions about the assumptions that went into calculating the social cost of carbon.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A document written last month by Energy Department transition leader Thomas Pyle and recently obtained by the Center for Media and Democracy suggested that "during the Trump Administration the [social cost of carbon] will likely be reviewed and the latest science brought to bear. If the [social cost of carbon] were subjected to the latest science, it would certainly be much lower than what the Obama administration has been using."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But many experts have countered that rejecting the social cost of carbon may not hold up under scientific, or even legal, standards. If anything, many scientists believe that its monetary value should be set even higher.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A U.S. government working group first convened in 2009 to develop a method for quantifying the social cost of carbon, and the value has since been used to help create a variety of federal environmental regulations, including the Clean Power Plan. The cost is currently set at about $36 per ton of carbon dioxide.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Many 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  experts now say the models used to calculate the value rely on dated research and that certain 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related damage was not adequately factored in.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "When the U.S. government issued the social cost of carbon first in 2009 or 2010, it was a very good job of summarizing the literature as it stood," said Michael Greenstone, an economist at the University of Chicago and former chief economist for President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, who helped convene the first federal working group to address the social cost of carbon. "What has emerged since then has been an explosion of research to estimate the likely damages from 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone ."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 One 2015 paper argued that the models don't do enough to account for the effect of higher temperatures on the gross domestic product. Once the authors factored it in, they found that the social cost of carbon skyrocketed to about $220 per ton of carbon dioxide.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The lead author of that paper, Frances Moore of the University of California at Davis, is now working on new research that addresses the impact of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  on agricultural output and how those effects can radiate through the economy.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The representation of those impacts in the agricultural sector is pretty dated in the models," Moore said. "When we update those ... we find the social cost of carbon goes up substantially."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 As Greenstone and his colleague Cass R. Sunstein of the Harvard Law School pointed out in a New York Times op-ed this month, it would be difficult legally or even impossible for the Trump administration to do away with the metric entirely. A reason the standard was developed was because a 2008 federal court of appeals ruling specified that federal regulations must take 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  impacts into account. A more recent legal challenge to the use of the social cost of carbon was rejected in court.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 But there are ways to dull the metric's bite by making its value smaller. One way would be to reconsider the calculations known as the "discount rate." This is a kind of interest rate that can be thought of as a way to address how much the present generation is willing to pay to prevent 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone -related damage in the future.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 A higher discount rate results in a lower social cost of carbon. Currently, the federal government uses a rate of 3 percent with a value of $36 for the social cost of carbon. But according to the Environmental Protection Agency, a discount rate of 2.5 percent would bring the cost up to $56 per ton of carbon dioxide, while a rate of 5 percent would lower it to $11 per ton.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 David Kreutzer, a member of the EPA transition team who has previously questioned the science of anthropogenic 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , published an essay earlier this year arguing for a 7 percent discount rate, rather than 3 percent.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The National Academy of Sciences has assembled a committee of experts to review the way economic aspects of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  are modeled. Their findings are expected to be published in a report early next year.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 "The economic consensus is actually moving in the direction that suggests the Obama discount rate is too high, not too low," said Richard Revesz, dean emeritus of the New York University School of Law. "Once that report is out there, if the Trump administration wants to take a very different approach, it will have to explain ... why it decided to disregard a consensus report of a very highly distinguished panel and what support it has for doing that."
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 health-science@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 27, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The fight on climate change heats up
\f2\i0\fs32 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs20 \cf0 The Washington Post
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 December 16, 2016 Friday, Regional Edition
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl240\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f3\fs16 Copyright 2016 The Washington Post All Rights Reserved
\f0\fs24 \
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs20 \cf0 Distribution:
\f3\b0 \'a0Every Zone
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Section:
\f3\b0 \'a0EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Length:
\f3\b0 \'a0784 words
\f0\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs20 Byline:
\f3\b0 \'a0Eugene Robinson
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl340\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 Body
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl-60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 The incoming Trump administration will face passionate and hostile resistance if it tries to deny the reality of human-induced 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone . We can already hear the drums of war.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 lThe Energy Department flatly denied a demand from the Trump transition team to supply the names of employees or contractors who have participated in international 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  negotiations in the past five years. Also rejected was a request for names of staff who helped calculate the "social cost" of carbon emissions. The obvious concern is that these workers would be labeled as unreliable, and perhaps shoved aside, by political appointees determined to pretend that 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  does not exist.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 lScientists have begun a frantic effort to archive decades' worth of 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  data, copying it onto servers that are beyond the U.S. government's reach. The voluminous data sets, compiled by agencies including NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, help form the basis for the consensus view that the atmosphere and the oceans are rapidly warming due to heat-trapping carbon dioxide emissions. There has been no threat from the Trump camp to do anything untoward regarding the data, but the researchers are taking no chances.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 lCalifornia Gov. Jerry Brown  (D) said Wednesday that if President-elect Donald Trump tries to impede his state's vigorous efforts against 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone , "We've got the scientists, we've got the lawyers and we're ready to fight." Speaking in San Francisco at a meeting of the American Geophysical Union, Brown warned that rumored budget cuts might end a NASA program that uses satellites to take measurements of the Earth, including temperature. "If Trump turns off the satellites," Brown declared, "California will launch its own damn satellite."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 All of this is just the beginning. Trump, who has repeatedly described 
\f1\i\b \ul climate change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  as a "hoax," will try to reverse the Obama administration's progress in limiting carbon emissions. Assuming he follows through, he'll have a real fight on his hands.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 At one of his strongman-style victory rallies Tuesday night, Trump said that "we will cancel the restrictions on the production of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean, beautiful coal."
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Apparently, Trump never met a fossil fuel he didn't like. And he has announced his intention to appoint the most prominent oil man he could find - Rex Tillerson, chief executive of ExxonMobil, the largest nongovernment oil company in the world - as secretary of state.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump may renounce the historic Paris agreement, in which the world's biggest carbon emitters - China, the United States and India - all pledged curbs. He can also eliminate regulations limiting carbon emissions by power plants, encourage more drilling for oil and natural gas, and try his best to revive the moribund coal mining industry, though its decline is due more to market forces than to anything the government has done.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 These threatened actions come near the end of what will almost surely be the warmest year on record. Continuing what scientists see as an indisputable trend, 2016 was an absolute scorcher. And yes, I realize that right now it's cold in much of the country; some scientists believe that rapid warming at the North Pole has destabilized air flow patterns and perhaps made these "polar vortex" cold snaps more common. In any event, the key measurement is the global temperature average, not the local wind chill.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Trump is being advised by a number of vocal 
\f1\i\b \ul climate-change
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  deniers. The data that scientists are rushing to preserve clearly refutes those who say there is no warming - hence the urgency to protect the information. Some deniers acknowledge the fact of warming but say that it is due to some unfathomable natural cycle. But Occam's razor argues persuasively for the simpler explanation: Since the Industrial Revolution, we have increased the atmosphere's concentration of carbon dioxide - known to trap heat - by an incredible 40 percent.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Much of the rest of the world understands the need to move toward clean energy. The technology isn't quite there yet, so some breakthroughs will be required. Smart government policy would be to invest in research to make it more likely that these advances are made in Berkeley rather than Bangalore or Beijing.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 Dumb policy would be to fire up the smokestacks, stop collecting all that annoying 
\f1\i\b \ul climate
\f3\i0\b0 \ulnone  data and marginalize federal employees who best understand global warming. This is the direction Trump appears to be headed.
\f0\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 The president-elect threatens to make the United States a second-rate player in the coming clean-energy economy. I guess that's his idea of greatness, but it's not mine.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 eugenerobinson@washpost.com
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl260\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b\fs20 Load-Date:
\f3\b0 \'a0December 16, 2016
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li200\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs16 \cf3 End of Document
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
}